-
A disposition of property for the benefit of some person orpersons, usually through the medium of trustees, and for the benefitof a wife, children, or other relatives; jointure granted to a wife,or the act of granting it.
------
One of the simplest essential parts, more commonly calledcells, of which animal and vegetable organisms, or their tissues andorgans, are composed.
-ABLY
A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as,favorably.
-ANA
A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote acollection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus,Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsonianaof Johnson, etc.
-ANCE
A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.
-ANCY
A suffix expressing more strongly than -ance the idea ofquality or state; as, constancy, buoyancy, infancy.
-ANT
A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant,covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent.
-ARCH
A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).
-ATION
A suffix forming nouns of action, and often equivalent to theverbal substantive in -ing. It sometimes has the further meanings ofstate, and that which results from the action. Many of these nounshave verbs in -ate; as, alliterate -ation, narrate -ation; many arederived through the French; as, alteration, visitation; and many areformed on verbs ending in the Greek formative -ize (Fr. -ise); as,civilization, demoralization.
-BLAST
A suffix or terminal formative, used principally in biologicalterms, and signifying growth, formation; as, bioblast, epiblast,mesoblast, etc.
-DERM
A suffix or terminal formative, much used in anatomical terms,and signifying skin, integument, covering; as, blastoderm, ectoderm,etc.
-DOM
A suffix denoting:(a) Jurisdiction or property and jurisdiction, dominion, as inkingdom earldom.(b) State, condition, or quality of being, as in wisdom, freedom.
-ED
The termination of the past participle of regular, or weak,verbs; also, of analogous participial adjectives from nouns; as,pigmented; talented.
-EE
A suffix used, chiefly in law terms, in a passivesignification, to indicate the direct or indirect object of anaction, or the one to whom an act is done or on whom a right isconferred; as in assignee, donee, alienee, grantee, etc. It iscorrelative to -or, the agent or doer.
-EN
An adjectival suffix, meaning made of; as in golden, leaden,wooden.
-ENCE
A noun suffix signifying action, state, or quality; also, thatwhich relates to the action or state; as in emergence, diffidence,diligence, influence, difference, excellence. See -ance.
-ENCY
A noun suffix having much the same meaning as -ence, but morecommonly signifying the quality or state; as, emergency, efficiency.See -ancy.
-ENT
An adjective suffix signifying action or being; as, corrodent,excellent, emergent, continent, quiescent. See -ant.
-ER
.
-ESCENT
A suffix signifying beginning, beginning to be; as, adolescent,effervescent, etc.
-ESQUE
A suffix of certain words from the French, Italian, andSpanish. It denotes manner or style; like; as, arabesque, after themanner of the Arabs.
-ESS
A suffix used to form feminine nouns; as, actress, deaconess,songstress.
-EST
A suffix used to form the superlative of adjectives andadverbs; as, smoothest; earl(y)iest.
-ET
A noun suffix with a diminutive force; as in baronet, pocket,facet, floweret, latchet.
-FEROUS
A suffix signifying bearing, producing, yielding; as,auriferous, yielding gold; chyliferous, producing chyle.
-FUL
A suffix signifying full of, abounding with; as, boastful,harmful, woeful.
-FY
A suffix signifying to make, to form into, etc.; as, acetify,amplify, dandify, Frenchify, etc.
-GENOUS
A suffix signifying producing, yielding; as, alkaligenous;endogenous.
-GEROUS
A suffix signifying bearing, producing; as, calcigerous;dentigerous.
-GRAM
A suffix indicating something drawn or written, a drawing,writing; -- as, monogram, telegram, chronogram.
-GRAPH
A suffix signifying something written, a writing; also, awriter; as autograph, crystograph, telegraph, photograph.
-GRAPHY
A suffix denoting the art of writing or describing; also, thewriting or description itself; a treatise; as, calligraphy,biography, geography.
-GRAVE
A final syllable signifying a ruler, as in landgrave, margrave.See Margrave.
-HEAD
A variant of -hood.
-HOOD
A termination denoting state, condition, quality, character,totality, as in manhood, childhood, knighthood, brotherhood.Sometimes it is written, chiefly in obsolete words, in the form -head.
-IBLE
. See -able.
-IC
A suffix, denoting that the element indicated enters intocertain compounds with its highest valence, or with a valencerelatively higher than in compounds where the name of the elementends in -ous; as, ferric, sulphuric. It is also used in the generalsense of pertaining to; as, hydric, sodic, calcic.
-ICS
. A suffix used in forming the names of certain sciences,systems, etc., as acoustics, mathematics, dynamics, statistics,politics, athletics.
-IDE
A suffix used to denote: (a) The nonmetallic, or negative,element or radical in a binary compound; as, oxide, sulphide,chloride. (b) A compound which is an anhydride; as, glycolide,phthalide. (c) Any one of a series of derivatives; as, indogenide,glucoside, etc.
-IN
A suffix. See the Note under -ine.
-INE
A suffix, indicating that those substances of whose names it isa part are basic, and alkaloidal in their nature.
-ING
A suffix used to from present participles; as, singing,playing.
-ION
A noun suffix denoting act, process, result of an act or aprocess, thing acted upon, state, or condition; as, revolution, theact or process of revolving; construction, the act or process ofconstructing; a thing constructed; dominion, territory ruled over;subjection, state of being subject; dejection; abstraction.
-ISE
. See -ize.
-ISH
A suffix used to from adjectives from nouns and fromadjectives. It denotes relation, resemblance, similarity, andsometimes has a diminutive force; as, selfish, boyish, brutish;whitish, somewhat white.
-ISM
A suffix indicating an act, a process, the result of an act ora process, a state; also, a characteristic (as a theory, doctrine,idiom, etc.); as, baptism, galvanism, organism, hypnotism, socialism,sensualism, Anglicism.
-IST
A noun suffix denoting an agent, or doer, one who practices, abeliever in; as, theorist, one who theorizes; socialist, one whoholds to socialism; sensualist, one given to sensuality.
-ITE
A suffix used to denote the salts formed from those acids whosenames end in -ous; as, sulphite, from sulphurous; nitrite, fromnitrous acid, etc.
-ITIS
A suffix used in medical terms to denote an inflammatorydisease of; as, arthritis; bronchitis, phrenitis.
-IVE
An adjective suffix signifying relating or belonging to, of thenature of, tending to; as affirmative, active, conclusive,corrective, diminutive.
-IZE
A verb suffix signifying to make, to do, to practice; asapologize, baptize, theorize, tyrannize.
-KIN
A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.
-LESS
A privative adjective suffix, denoting without, destitute of,not having; as witless, childless, fatherless.
-LET
A noun suffix having a diminutive force; as in streamlet,armlet.
-LING
A noun suffix, commonly having a diminutive or a depreciatoryforce; as in duck-ling, dosling, hireling, fosterling, firstling,underling.
-LOGY
A combining form denoting a discourse, treatise, doctrine,theory, science; as, theology, geology, biology, mineralogy.
-LY
A suffix forming adjectives and adverbs, and denoting likenessor resemblance.
-MANCY
A combining form denoting divination; as, aleuromancy,chiromancy, necromancy, etc.
-MENT
A suffix denoting that which does a thing; an act or process;the result of an act or process; state or condition; as, aliment,that which nourishes, ornament, increment; fragment, piece broken,segment; abridgment, act of abridging, imprisonment, movement,adjournment; amazement, state of being amazed, astonishment.
-MERE
A combining form meaning part, portion; as, blastomere,epimere.
-METER
A suffix denoting that by which anything is measured; as,barometer, chronometer, dynamometer.
-METRY
A suffix denoting the art, process, or science, of measuring;as, acidmetry, chlorometry, chronometry.
-MO
A suffix added to the names of certain numerals or to thenumerals themselves, to indicate the number of leaves made by foldinga sheet of paper; as, sixteenmo or 16mo; eighteenmo or 18mo. It istaken from the Latin forms similarly used; as, duodecimo,sextodecimo, etc. A small circle, placed after the number and nearits top, is often used for -mo; as, 16ยฐ, 18ยฐ, etc.
-MORPHOUS
A combining form denoting form, shape; as, isomorphous.
-NESS
A suffix used to form abstract nouns expressive of quality orstate; as, goodness, greatness.
-OCK
A suffix used to form diminutives; as, bullock, hillock.
-OID
A suffix or combining form meaning like, resembling, in theform of; as in anthropoid, asteroid, spheroid.
-OL
A suffix denoting that the substance in the name of which itappears belongs to the series of alcohols or hydroxyl derivatives, ascarbinol, glycerol, etc.
-OMA
A suffix used in medical terms to denote a morbid condition ofsome part, usually some kind of tumor; as in fibroma, glaucoma.
-ONE
A suffix indicating that the substance, in the name of which itappears, is a ketone; as, acetone.
-ORY
A noun suffix denoting that which pertains to, or serves for;as in ambulatory, that which serves for walking; consistory, factory,etc.
-OSE
A suffix indicating that the substance to the name of wich itis affixed is a member of the carbohydrate group; as in cellulose,sucrose, dextrose, etc.
-OUR
See -or.
-OUS
A suffix denoting that the element indicated by the namebearing it, has a valence lower than that denoted by the termination-ic; as, nitrous, sulphurous, etc., as contrasted with nitric,sulphuric, etc.
-PLASTIC
A combining form signifying developing, forming, growing; as,heteroplastic, monoplastic, polyplastic.
-PLASTY
A combining form denoting the act or process of forming,development, growth; as, autoplasty, perineoplasty.
-POD
A combining form or suffix from Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot; as,decapod, an animal having ten feet; phyllopod, an animal havingleaflike feet; myriapod, hexapod.
-PODA
A New Latin plural combining form or suffix from Gr. foot; as,hexapoda, myriapoda. See -pod.
-RIC
A suffix signifying dominion, jurisdiction; as, bishopric, thedistrict over which a bishop exercises authority.
-S
The suffix used to form the plural of most words; as in roads,elfs, sides, accounts.
-SCOPE
A combining form usually signifying an instrument for viewing(with the eye) or observing (in any way); as in microscope,telescope, altoscope, anemoscope.
-SHIP
A suffix denoting state, office, dignity, profession, or art;as in lordship, friendship, chancellorship, stewardship,horsemanship.
-SOME
A combining form or suffix from Gr. sw^ma (gen. sw`matos) thebody; as in merosome, a body segment; cephalosome, etc.
-STER
A suffix denoting the agent (originally a woman), especially aperson who does something with skill or as an occupation; as inspinster (originally, a woman who spins), songster, baxter (=bakester), youngster.
-TYPE
A combining form signifying impressed form; stamp; print; type;typical form; representative; as in stereotype phototype, ferrotype,monotype.
-URET
A suffix with the same meaning as -ide. See -ide. [Obs.]
-WARDS
See -ward.
-WAYS
A suffix formed from way by the addition of the adverbial -s(see -wards). It is often used interchangeably with wise; as, endwaysor endwise; noways or nowise, etc.
-YL
A suffix used as a characteristic termination of chemicalradicals; as in ethyl, carbonyl, hydroxyl, etc.
A
The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets.The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as alsothe small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter,etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed fromthe Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the firstletter (Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was aconsonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not anelement of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to representtheir vowel Alpha with the รค sound, the Phoenician alphabet having novowel symbols. This letter, in English, is used for several differentvowel sounds. See Guide to pronunciation, ยงยง 43-74. The regular longa, as in fate, etc., is a comparatively modern sound, and has takenthe place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, wasa sound of the quality of รค (as in far).
A CHEVAL
Astride; with a part on each side; -- used specif. indesignating the position of an army with the wings separated by someline of demarcation, as a river or road.
A FORTIORI
With stronger reason.
A MENSA ET THORO
A kind of divorce which does not dissolve the marriage bond,but merely authorizes a separate life of the husband and wife.Abbott.
A POSTERIORI
Characterizing that kind of reasoning which derivespropositions from the observation of facts, or by generalizationsfrom facts arrives at principles and definitions, or infers causesfrom effects. This is the reverse of a priori reasoning.
A PRIORI
Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deducesconsequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or whichinfers effects from causes previously known; deductive ordeductively. The reverse of a posteriori.
A-
A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from varioussources. (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms ofAS. on), denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep,aground, aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble,etc. (2) AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofdรผne off the dun orhill). (3) AS. a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving anintensive force, and sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as inarise, abide, ago. (4) Old English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS.inseparable particle ge-, cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-),which, as a prefix, made no essential addition to the meaning, as inaware. (5) French ร  (L. ad to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab,abs, from, as in avert. (7) Greek insep. prefix a without, orprivative, not, as in abyss, atheist; akin to E. un-.
A-GOOD
In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood." Shak.
A-MORNINGS
In the morning; every morning. [Obs.]And have such pleasant walks into the woods A-mornings. J. Fletcher.
A-SEA
On the sea; at sea; toward the sea.
A-TIPTOE
On tiptoe; eagerly expecting.We all feel a-tiptoe with hope and confidence. F. Harrison.
AAM
A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in differentcities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36ยฝ, atHamburg 38ยผ. [Written also Aum and Awm.]
AARD-VARK
An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhatresembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrowsin the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with itslong, slimy tongue.
AARD-WOLF
A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa,resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.
AB
The fifth month of the Jewish year according to theecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith.
AB-
A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away, separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-(6).
ABACA
The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. SeeManila hemp under Manila.
ABACINATE
To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.]
ABACINATION
The act of abacinating. [R.]
ABACISCUS
One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; anabaculus.
ABACIST
One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.
ABACK
Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed bythe wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backwardagainst the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when thesails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, ordiscomfited. Dickens.
ABACTINAL
Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in aradiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinalarea." L. Agassiz.
ABACTION
Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.]
ABACTOR
One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds ordroves. [Obs.]
ABACULUS
A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of variouscolors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.Fairholt.
ABADA
The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas.
ABAFT
Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaftthe beam. See under Beam.
ABAISANCE
Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.
ABAISER
Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale.
ABAIST
Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ABALIENATE
To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.
ABALIENATION
The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.]
ABALONE
A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is linedwith mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear.Several large species are found on the coast of California, clingingclosely to the rocks.
ABANDON
To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured persongives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by apolicy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insuredagainst.
ABANDONEDLY
Unrestrainedly.
ABANDONEE
One to whom anything is legally abandoned.
ABANDONER
One who abandons. Beau. & Fl.
ABANDONMENT
The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of whatmay remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a perilinsured against.
ABANDUM
Anything forfeited or confiscated.
ABANET
See Abnet.
ABANGA
A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds ofwhich are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.
ABARTICULATION
Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits offree motion in the joint; diarthrosis. Coxe.
ABASED
Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of thewings turned downward towards the point of the shield.
ABASEDLY
Abjectly; downcastly.
ABASEMENT
The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state ofbeing abased or humbled; humiliation.
ABASER
He who, or that which, abases.
ABASH
To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, asby exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, orinferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton.He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.
ABASHEDLY
In an abashed manner.
ABASHMENT
The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.
ABASIA
Inability to coรถrdinate muscular actions properly in walking. -- A*ba"sic (#), a.
ABATABLE
Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.
ABATE
(a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with;as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish;to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or inproportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit iteither wholly or in part.
ABATEMENT
A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.
ABATER
One who, or that which, abates.
ABATISED
Provided with an abatis.
ABATOR
(a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right,enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before theheir or devisee. Blackstone.
ABATTOIR
A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.
ABATURE
Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passingthrough them. Crabb.
ABATVOIX
The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.
ABAWED
Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ABAY
Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.]
ABB
Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool forthe abb.
ABB WOOL
See Abb.
ABBA
Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, andEthiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishopsto the patriarch.
ABBACY
The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.
ABBATIAL
Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.
ABBATICAL
Abbatial. [Obs.]
ABBE
The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of anabbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every onevested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.
ABBESS
A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent ofnuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots haveover the monks. See Abbey.
ABBOTSHIP
The state or office of an abbot.
ABBREVIATE
To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.
ABBREVIATED
Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.
ABBREVIATION
One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing itrespectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers. Moore.
ABBREVIATORY
Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.
ABDAL
A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.
ABDERIAN
Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.
ABDERITE
An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace. The Abderite, Democritus,the Laughing Philosopher.
ABDEST
Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- aMohammedan rite. Heyse.
ABDICABLE
Capable of being abdicated.
ABDICANT
Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.Monks abdicant of their orders. Whitlock.
ABDICATE
To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child;to disown; to disinherit.
ABDICATION
The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office,dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciationof sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power,authority.
ABDICATIVE
Causing, or implying, abdication. [R.] Bailey.
ABDICATOR
One who abdicates.
ABDITIVE
Having the quality of hiding. [R.] Bailey.
ABDITORY
A place for hiding or preserving articles of value. Cowell.
ABDOMEN
The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and thepelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by theperitoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. Inman, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and thecommencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelviccavity.
ABDOMINAL
Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as,abdominal fishes. Abdominal ring (Anat.), a fancied ringlike openingon each side of the abdomen, external and superior to the pubes; --called also inguinal ring.
ABDOMINALES
A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, andmany marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behindthe pectorals.
ABDOMINALIA
A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.
ABDOMINOSCOPY
Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.
ABDOMINOTHORACIC
Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.
ABDOMINOUS
Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.Gorgonius sits, abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinesefan. Cowper.
ABDUCE
To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a differentpart. [Obs.]If we abduce the eye unto either corner, the object will notduplicate. Sir T. Browne.
ABDUCTION
The movement which separates a limb or other part from theaxis, or middle line, of the body.
ABDUCTOR
A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the medianline of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eyeoutward.
ABEAM
On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle withthe ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.
ABEARANCE
Behavior. [Obs.] Blackstone.
ABEARING
Behavior. [Obs.] Sir. T. More.
ABECEDARIAN
Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet;alphabetic; hence, rudimentary. Abecedarian psalms, hymns, etc.,compositions in which (like the 119th psalm in Hebrew) distinctportions or verses commence with successive letters of the alphabet.Hook.
ABECEDARY
A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything. [R.]Fuller.
ABEGGE
Same as Aby. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ABELE
The white polar (Populus alba).Six abeles i' the churchyard grow. Mrs. Browning.
ABELMOSK
An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus-moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whosemusky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimescalled musk mallow.
ABER-DE-VINE
The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green andyellow finch, related to the goldfinch.
ABERR
To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ABERRANT
See Aberr.]
ABERRATE
To go astray; to diverge. [R.]Their own defective and aberrating vision. De Quincey.
ABERRATION
A small periodical change of position in the stars and otherheavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of lightand the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when theobserver's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and dairy ordiurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting whengreatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''.Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and themotion of the planet relative to the earth.
ABERRATIONAL
Characterized by aberration.
ABERUNCATE
To weed out. [Obs.] Bailey.
ABERUNCATOR
A weeding machine.
ABET
To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commissionof an offense.
ABETMENT
The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.
ABETTAL
Abetment. [R.]
ABEVACUATION
A partial evacuation. Mayne.
ABEYANCE
Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.
ABEYANCY
Abeyance. [R.] Hawthorne.
ABEYANT
Being in a state of abeyance.
ABGEORDNETENHAUS
See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.
ABHAL
The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.
ABHOMINABLE
Abominable.
ABHOMINAL
Inhuman. [Obs.] Fuller.
ABHOR
To protest against; to reject solemnly. [Obs.]I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. Shak.
ABHORRENCE
Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.
ABHORRENCY
Abhorrence. [Obs.] Locke.
ABHORRENTLY
With abhorrence.
ABHORRER
One who abhors. Hume.
ABHORRIBLE
Detestable. [R.]
ABIB
The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivitythis month was called Nisan. Kitto.
ABIDANCE
The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).The Christians had no longer abidance in the holy hill of Palestine.Fuller.A judicious abidance by rules. Helps.
ABIDE
To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.Dearly I abide that boast so vain. Milton.
ABIDING
Continuing; lasting.
ABIDINGLY
Permanently. Carlyle.
ABIES
A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsamfir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred tothis genus.
ABIETENE
A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nutpine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.
ABIETIC
Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abieticacid, called also sylvic acid. Watts.
ABIETINIC
Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.
ABIETITE
A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of thecommon silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata). Eng. Cyc.
ABIGAIL
A lady's waiting-maid. Pepys.Her abigail reported that Mrs. Gutheridge had a set of night curlsfor sleeping in. Leslie.
ABILIMENT
Habiliment. [Obs.]
ABILITY
The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whetherphysical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity;skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill,resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined tosend relief unto the brethren. Acts xi. 29.Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning bystudy. Bacon.The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of ability.Macaulay.
ABIOGENESIS
The supposed origination of living organisms from lifelessmatter; such genesis as does not involve the action of livingparents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposedto biogenesis.I shall call the . . . doctrine that living matter may be produced bynot living matter, the hypothesis of abiogenesis. Huxley, 1870.
ABIOGENETIC
Of or pertaining to abiogenesis. Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
ABIOGENIST
One who believes that life can be produced independently ofantecedent. Huxley.
ABIOGENOUS
Produced by spontaneous generation.
ABIOGENY
Same as Abiogenesis.
ABIOLOGICAL
Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.
ABIRRITANT
A medicine that diminishes irritation.
ABIRRITATE
To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.
ABIRRITATION
A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation;debility; want of strength; asthenia.
ABIRRITATIVE
Characterized by abirritation or debility.
ABIT
3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ABJECT
To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; todebase. [Obs.] Donne.
ABJECTEDNESS
A very abject or low condition; abjectness. [R.] Boyle.
ABJECTLY
Meanly; servilely.
ABJECTNESS
The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.Grew.
ABJUDGE
To take away by judicial decision. [R.]
ABJUDICATE
To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge. [Obs.] Ash.
ABJUDICATION
Rejection by judicial sentence. [R.] Knowles.
ABJUGATE
To unyoke. [Obs.] Bailey.
ABJUNCTIVE
Exceptional. [R.]It is this power which leads on from the accidental and abjunctive tothe universal. I. Taylor.
ABJURATORY
Containing abjuration.
ABJURE
To renounce on oath. Bp. Burnet.
ABJUREMENT
Renunciation. [R.]
ABJURER
One who abjures.
ABLACTATE
To wean. [R.] Bailey.
ABLACTATION
The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting byapproach.
ABLAQUEATE
To lay bare, as the roots of a tree. [Obs.] Bailey.
ABLAQUEATION
The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to exposethem to the air and water. [Obs.] Evelyn.
ABLASTEMIC
Non-germinal.
ABLATION
Extirpation. Dunglison.
ABLATITIOUS
Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force. Sir J. Herschel.
ABLATIVE
Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some otherlanguages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal,separation, or taking away.
ABLAUT
The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicatinga corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation;as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. Earle.
ABLE
Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able toinherit or devise property.
ABLE-BODIED
Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust."Able-bodied vagrant." Froude.-- A`ble-bod"ied*ness, n..
ABLE-MINDED
Having much intellectual power.-- A`ble-mind"ed*ness, n.
ABLEGATE
To send abroad. [Obs.] Bailey.
ABLEGATION
The act of sending abroad. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
ABLENESS
Ability of body or mind; force; vigor. [Obs. or R.]
ABLEPSY
Blindness. [R.] Urquhart.
ABLER
comp. of Able.-- A"blest, a.,
ABLIGATE
To tie up so as to hinder from. [Obs.]
ABLIGURITION
Prodigal expense for food. [Obs.] Bailey.
ABLINS
Perhaps. [Scot.]
ABLOOM
In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson.
ABLUDE
To be unlike; to differ. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ABLUENT
Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.-- n. (Med.)
ABLUSH
Blushing; ruddy.
ABLUTION
A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash thepriest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then,as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunkby the priest.
ABLUTIONARY
Pertaining to ablution.
ABLUVION
That which is washed off. [R.] Dwight.
ABLY
In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned,said.
ABNEGATE
To deny and reject; to abjure. Sir E. Sandys. Farrar.
ABNEGATION
a denial; a renunciation.With abnegation of God, of his honor, and of religion, they mayretain the friendship of the court. Knox.
ABNEGATIVE
Denying; renouncing; negative. [R.] Clarke.
ABNEGATOR
One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything. [R.]
ABNET
The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.
ABNODATE
To clear (tress) from knots. [R.] Blount.
ABNODATION
The act of cutting away the knots of trees. [R.] Crabb.
ABNORMAL
Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type;anomalous; irregular. "That deviating from the type; anomalous;irregular. " Froude.
ABNORMALLY
In an abnormal manner; irregularly. Darwin.
ABNORMITY
Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity."An abnormity . . . like a calf born with two heads." Mrs. Whitney.
ABNORMOUS
Abnormal; irregular. Hallam.A character of a more abnormous cast than his equally suspectedcoadjutor. State Trials.
ABOARD
On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or withina railway car.
ABODANCE
An omen; a portending. [Obs.]
ABODE
of Abide.
ABODEMENT
A foreboding; an omen. [Obs.] "Abodements must not now affrightus." Shak.
ABODING
A foreboding. [Obs.]
ABOLISHABLE
Capable of being abolished.
ABOLISHER
One who abolishes.
ABOLISHMENT
The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction. Hooker.
ABOLITION
The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; anannulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition ofslavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees,ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.
ABOLITIONISM
The principles or measures of abolitionists. Wilberforce.
ABOLITIONIST
A person who favors the abolition of any institution,especially negro slavery.
ABOLITIONIZE
To imbue with the principles of abolitionism. [R.] Bartlett.
ABOMA
A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).
ABOMINABLENESS
The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness. Bentley.
ABOMINABLY
In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.
ABOMINATE
To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, asif with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.
ABOON
and adv. Above. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]Aboon the pass of Bally-Brough. Sir W. Scott.The ceiling fair that rose aboon. J. R. Drake.
ABORAL
Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.
ABORD
Manner of approaching or accosting; address. Chesterfield.
ABORIGINALITY
The quality of being aboriginal. Westm. Rev.
ABORIGINALLY
Primarily.
ABORSEMENT
Abortment; abortion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ABORSIVE
Abortive. [Obs.] Fuller.
ABORT
To become checked in normal development, so as either to remainrudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.
ABORTED
Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normaldevelopment at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.The eyes of the cirripeds are more or less aborted in their maturestate. Owen.
ABORTICIDE
The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.
ABORTIFACIENT
Producing miscarriage.-- n.
ABORTION
Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains animperfect formation or is absorbed.
ABORTIONAL
Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive. Carlyle.
ABORTIONIST
One who procures abortion or miscarriage.
ABORTIVE
Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, anabortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.
ABORTIVELY
In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.
ABORTIVENESS
The quality of being abortive.
ABORTMENT
Abortion. [Obs.]
ABOUGHT
of Aby. [Obs.]
ABOUT
On the point or verge of; going; in act of.Paul was now aboutto open his mouth. Acts xviii. 14.
ABOUT-SLEDGE
The largest hammer used by smiths. Weale.
ABOVE-CITED
Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.
ABOVEBOARD
Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick,concealment, or deception. "Fair and aboveboard." Burke.
ABOVEDECK
On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice. Smart.
ABOVESAID
Mentioned or recited before.
ABOX
Braced aback.
ABRA
A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of acaรฑon. [Southwestern U. S.]
ABRACADABRA
A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in thefigure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. Atpresent the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something withoutmeaning; jargon.
ABRADANT
A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass,etc.
ABRADE
To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, toabrade rocks. Lyell.
ABRAHAMIC
Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamiccovenant.
ABRAID
To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.[Obs.] Chaucer.
ABRANCHIAL
Abranchiate.
ABRANCHIATA
A group of annelids, so called because the species composing ithave no special organs of respiration.
ABRANCHIATE
Without gills.
ABRASE
Rubbed smooth. [Obs.] "An abrase table." B. Jonson.
ABRASION
A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under theform of small shreds. Dunglison.
ABRASIVE
Producing abrasion. Ure.
ABRAXAS
A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among theancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.
ABRAY
See Abraid. [Obs.] Spenser.
ABREACTION
See Catharsis, below.
ABREAST
Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with thevessel's beam; -- with of.
ABREGGE
See Abridge. [Obs.]
ABRENOUNCE
To renounce. [Obs.] "They abrenounce and cast them off."Latimer.
ABRENUNCIATION
Absolute renunciation or repudiation. [Obs.]An abrenunciation of that truth which he so long had professed, andstill believed. Fuller.
ABREPTION
A snatching away. [Obs.]
ABREUVOIR
The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled withmortar. Gwilt.
ABRICOCK
See Apricot. [Obs.]
ABRIDGER
One who abridges.
ABROACH
To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.[Obs.] Chaucer.
ABROGABLE
Capable of being abrogated.
ABROGATE
Abrogated; abolished. [Obs.] Latimer.
ABROGATION
The act of abrogating; repeal by authority. Hume.
ABROGATIVE
Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.
ABROGATOR
One who repeals by authority.
ABROOD
In the act of brooding. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft.
ABROOK
To brook; to endure. [Obs.] Shak.
ABRUPT
Suddenly terminating, as if cut off. Gray.
ABRUPTION
A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.Woodward.
ABSCESS
A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organof the body, the result of a morbid process. Cold abscess, an abscessof slow formation, unattended with the pain and heat characteristicof ordinary abscesses, and lasting for years without exhibiting anytendency towards healing; a chronic abscess.
ABSCESSION
A separating; removal; also, an abscess. [Obs.] Gauden.Barrough.
ABSCIND
To cut off. [R.] "Two syllables . . . abscinded from the rest."Johnson.
ABSCISION
See Abscission.
ABSCISS
See Abscissa.
ABSCISSA
One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of acurve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coรถrdinate axes.
ABSCISSION
A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to saya thing stops abruptly: thus, "He is a man of so much honor andcandor, and of such generosity -- but I need say no more."
ABSCOND
To hide; to conceal. [Obs.] Bentley.
ABSCONDENCE
Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding. [R.] Phillips.
ABSCONDER
One who absconds.
ABSENT-MINDED
Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.-- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ness, n.-- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ly, adv.
ABSENTANEOUS
Pertaining to absence. [Obs.]
ABSENTATION
The act of absenting one's self. Sir W. Hamilton.
ABSENTEE
One who absents himself from his country, office, post, orduty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country ordistrict than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irishabsentee. Macaulay.
ABSENTEEISM
The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice ofabsenting one's self from the country or district where one's estateis situated.
ABSENTER
One who absents one's self.
ABSENTLY
In an absent or abstracted manner.
ABSENTMENT
The state of being absent; withdrawal. [R.] Barrow.
ABSENTNESS
The quality of being absent-minded. H. Miller.
ABSEY-BOOK
An A-B-C book; a primer. [Obs.] Shak.
ABSINTHATE
A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positiveradical.
ABSINTHIAL
Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.
ABSINTHIAN
Of the nature of wormwood. "Absinthian bitterness." T.Randolph.
ABSINTHIATE
To impregnate with wormwood.
ABSINTHIATED
Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.
ABSINTHIC
Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.
ABSINTHIN
The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Watts.
ABSINTHISM
The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use ofabsinth.
ABSINTHIUM
The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitterplant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.
ABSIS
See Apsis.
ABSIST
To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist. [Obs.] Raleigh.
ABSISTENCE
A standing aloof. [Obs.]
ABSOLUTE
Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.
ABSOLUTELY
In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly;positively.
ABSOLUTENESS
The quality of being absolute; independence of everythingextraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality;positiveness.
ABSOLUTION
An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accusedperson innocent. [Obs.]
ABSOLUTISM
Doctrine of absolute decrees. Ash.
ABSOLUTIST
One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition orconcept of the absolute. Sir. W. Hamilton.
ABSOLUTISTIC
Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.
ABSOLUTORY
Serving to absolve; absolving. "An absolutory sentence."Ayliffe.
ABSOLVABLE
That may be absolved.
ABSOLVATORY
Conferring absolution; absolutory.
ABSOLVENT
Absolving. [R.] Carlyle.
ABSOLVER
One who absolves. Macaulay.
ABSONANT
Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant. "Absonant tonature." Quarles.
ABSONOUS
Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous. [Obs.] "Absonous to ourreason." Glanvill.
ABSORBABILITY
The state or quality of being absorbable. Graham (Chemistry).
ABSORBABLE
Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up. Kerr.
ABSORBEDLY
In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.
ABSORBENCY
Absorptiveness.
ABSORBENT
Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive. Absorbent ground (Paint.), aground prepared for a picture, chiefly with distemper, or watercolors, by which the oil is absorbed, and a brilliancy is imparted tothe colors.
ABSORBER
One who, or that which, absorbs.
ABSORBING
Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.-- Ab*sorb"ing, adv.
ABSORBITION
Absorption. [Obs.]
ABSORPT
Absorbed. [Arcahic.] "Absorpt in care." Pope.
ABSORPTION
An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as,the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.
ABSORPTIVE
Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe. E.Darwin.
ABSORPTIVENESS
The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.
ABSORPTIVITY
Absorptiveness.
ABSQUATULATE
To take one's self off; to decamp. [A jocular word. U. S.]
ABSQUE HOC
. Etym: [L., without this.] (Law) The technical words of denialused in traversing what has been alleged, and is repeated.
ABSTAIN
To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily,and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; --with from.Not a few abstained from voting. Macaulay.Who abstains from meat that is not gaunt Shak.
ABSTAINER
One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use ofintoxicating liquors.
ABSTEMIOUSNESS
The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in theuse of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree ofabstinence than temperance.
ABSTENTION
The act of abstaining; a holding aloof. Jer. Taylor.
ABSTENTIOUS
Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining. Farrar.
ABSTERGE
To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, topurge. [R.] Quincy.
ABSTERGENT
Serving to cleanse, detergent.
ABSTERSE
To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ABSTERSION
Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.The task of ablution and abstersion being performed. Sir W. Scott.
ABSTERSIVE
Cleansing; purging. Bacon.
ABSTERSIVENESS
The quality of being abstersive. Fuller.
ABSTINENCY
Abstinence. [R.]
ABSTINENT
Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence ofappetite; abstemious; continent; temperate. Beau. & Fl.
ABSTINENTLY
With abstinence.
ABSTORTED
Wrested away. [Obs.] Bailey.
ABSTRACT
To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of asubstance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this senseextract is now more generally used.
ABSTRACTEDLY
In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.
ABSTRACTEDNESS
The state of being abstracted; abstract character.
ABSTRACTER
One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.
ABSTRACTION
The act process of leaving out of consideration one or moreproperties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis.Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or thecolor of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act iscalled abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness,virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.
ABSTRACTIONAL
Pertaining to abstraction.
ABSTRACTIONIST
An idealist. Emerson.
ABSTRACTITIOUS
Obtained from plants by distillation. [Obs.] Crabb.
ABSTRACTIVE
Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature. "Theabstractive faculty." I. Taylor.
ABSTRACTIVELY
In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself. Feltham.
ABSTRACTIVENESS
The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.
ABSTRACTLY
In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; byitself; as, matter abstractly considered.
ABSTRACTNESS
The quality of being abstract. "The abstractness of the ideas."Locke.
ABSTRINGE
To unbind. [Obs.] Bailey.
ABSTRUDE
To thrust away. [Obs.] Johnson.
ABSTRUSELY
In an abstruse manner.
ABSTRUSENESS
The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.Boyle.
ABSTRUSION
The act of thrusting away. [R.] Ogilvie.
ABSTRUSITY
Abstruseness; that which is abstruse. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
ABSUME
To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle.
ABSUMPTION
Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
ABSURD
Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposedto manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of commonsense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, anabsurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.This proffer is absurd and reasonless. Shak.'This phrase absurd to call a villain great. Pope.p. 9
ABSURDLY
In an absurd manner.
ABSURDNESS
Absurdity. [R.]
ABUNA
The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.
ABUNDANCE
An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty;profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictlyapplicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.It is lamentable to remember what abundance of noble blood hath beenshed with small benefit to the Christian state. Raleigh.
ABUNDANT
Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed byin, rarely by with. "Abundant in goodness and truth." Exod. xxxiv. 6.Abundant number (Math.), a number, the sum of whose aliquot partsexceeds the number itself. Thus, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, the aliquot parts of12, make the number 16. This is opposed to a deficient number, as 14,whose aliquot parts are 1, 2, 7, the sum of which is 10; and to aperfect number, which is equal to the sum of its aliquot parts, as 6,whose aliquot parts are 1, 2., 3.
ABUNDANTLY
In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in largemeasure.
ABURST
In a bursting condition.
ABUSABLE
That may be abused.
ABUSAGE
Abuse. [Obs.] Whately (1634).
ABUSEFUL
Full of abuse; abusive. [R.] "Abuseful names." Bp. Barlow.
ABUSER
One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].
ABUSION
Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception;cheat. Chaucer.
ABUSIVELY
In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.
ABUSIVENESS
The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violenceto the person.Pick out mirth, like stones out of thy ground, Profaneness,filthiness, abusiveness. Herbert.
ABUT
To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet;-- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.
ABUTILON
A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in thetorrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indianmallow.
ABUTTAL
The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; aheadland. Spelman.
ABUTTER
One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of acontiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.
ABUZZ
In a buzz; buzzing. [Colloq.] Dickens.
ABYSM
An abyss; a gulf. "The abysm of hell." Shak.
ABYSMAL
Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending;profound.Geology gives one the same abysmal extent of time that astronomy doesof space. Carlyle.
ABYSMALLY
To a fathomless depth; profoundly. "Abysmally ignorant." G.Eliot.
ABYSS
The center of an escutcheon.
ABYSSAL
Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable. Abyssalzone (Phys. Geog.), one of the belts or zones into which Sir E.Forbes divides the bottom of the sea in describing its plants,animals, etc. It is the one furthest from the shore, embracing allbeyond one hundred fathoms deep. Hence, abyssal animals, plants, etc.
ABYSSINIAN
Of or pertaining to Abyssinia. Abyssinian gold, an alloy of90.74 parts of copper and 8.33 parts of zink. Ure.
ACACIA
A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors,as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.
ACADEME
An academy. [Poetic] Shak.
ACADEMIAL
Academic. [R.]
ACADEMIAN
A member of an academy, university, or college.
ACADEMICALLY
In an academical manner.
ACADEMICALS
The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges anduniversities.
ACADEMISM
The doctrines of the Academic philosophy. [Obs.] Baxter.
ACADIAN
Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia. "Acadian farmers."Longfellow.-- n.
ACAJOU
One of the Acalephรฆ.
ACALEPHAE
A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusรฆ or jellyfishes,and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess.Sometimes called sea nettles.
ACALEPHOID
Belonging to or resembling the Acalephรฆ or jellyfishes.
ACANTH
Same as Acanthus.
ACANTHA
A prickle.
ACANTHACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe acanthus is the type.
ACANTHINE
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.
ACANTHOCARPOUS
Having the fruit covered with spines.
ACANTHOCEPHALA
A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed withrecurved spines.
ACANTHOCEPHALOUS
Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.
ACANTHOPHOROUS
Spine-bearing. Gray.
ACANTHOPODIOUS
Having spinous petioles.
ACANTHOPTERI
A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. SeeAcanthopterygii.
ACANTHOPTEROUS
Spiny-winged.
ACANTHOPTERYGIAN
Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as theperch.-- n.
ACANTHOPTERYGII
An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal,ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.
ACANTHOPTERYGIOUS
Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-finned.
ACANTHUS
A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south ofEurope, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.
ACAPSULAR
Having no capsule.
ACARDIAC
Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.
ACARIDAN
One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.
ACARINA
The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Manyspecies are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.
ACARINE
Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.
ACAROID
Shaped like or resembling a mite.
ACARPELLOUS
Having no carpels.
ACARPOUS
Not producing fruit; unfruitful.
ACARUS
A genus including many species of small mites.
ACATALECTIC
Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.-- n.
ACATALEPSY
Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancientSkeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts tocertainty, but only to probability.
ACATALEPTIC
Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.
ACATER
See Caterer. [Obs.]
ACATES
See Cates. [Obs.]
ACAUDATE
Tailless.
ACAULESCENT
Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed inthe ground. Gray.
ACAULINE
Same as Acaulescent.
ACCADIAN
Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia beforethe Assyrian conquest.-- Ac*ca"di*an, n., Ac"cad, n. Sayce.
ACCEDENCE
The act of acceding.
ACCEDER
One who accedes.
ACCELERANDO
Gradually accelerating the movement.
ACCELERATION
The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated;increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward theearth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.A period of social improvement, or of intellectual advancement,contains within itself a principle of acceleration. I. Taylor.(Astr. & Physics.) Acceleration of the moon, the increase of themoon's mean motion in its orbit, in consequence of which its periodof revolution is now shorter than in ancient times.-- Acceleration and retardation of the tides. See Priming of thetides, under Priming.-- Diurnal acceleration of the fixed stars, the amount by whichtheir apparent diurnal motion exceeds that of the sun, in consequenceof which they daily come to the meridian of any place about threeminutes fifty-six seconds of solar time earlier than on the daypreceding.-- Acceleration of the planets, the increasing velocity of theirmotion, in proceeding from the apogee to the perigee of their orbits.
ACCELERATIVE
Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening. Reid.
ACCELERATOR
One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as,accelerator nerves.
ACCELERATORY
Accelerative.
ACCELEROGRAPH
An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns,etc.
ACCELEROMETER
An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.
ACCEND
To set on fire; to kindle. [Obs.] Fotherby.
ACCENDIBILITY
Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed;inflammability.
ACCENDIBLE
Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.Ure.
ACCENSION
The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.Locke.
ACCENSOR
One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.
ACCENT
Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.
ACCENTLESS
Without accent.
ACCENTOR
One who sings the leading part; the director or leader. [Obs.]
ACCENTUABLE
Capable of being accented.
ACCENTUAL
Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.
ACCENTUALITY
The quality of being accentual.
ACCENTUALLY
In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.
ACCENTUATION
Act of accentuating; applications of accent. Specifically(Eccles. Mus.),
ACCEPT
To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept abill of exchange. Bouvier.
ACCEPTABILITY
The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness. "Acceptabilityof repentance." Jer. Taylor.
ACCEPTABLE
Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received withpleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as,an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.
ACCEPTABLENESS
The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorablyreceived; acceptability.
ACCEPTABLY
In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or givesatisfaction.
ACCEPTANCE
An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which bindsthe person in law.
ACCEPTANCY
Acceptance. [R.]Here's a proof of gift, But here's no proof, sir, of acceptancy. Mrs.Browning.
ACCEPTANT
Accepting; receiving.
ACCEPTEDLY
In a accepted manner; admittedly.
ACCEPTER
An acceptor.
ACCEPTILATION
Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation withoutpayment; free remission.
ACCEPTION
Acceptation; the received meaning. [Obs.]Here the word "baron" is not to be taken in that restrictive sense towhich the modern acception hath confined it. Fuller.Acception of persons or faces (Eccl.), favoritism; partiality. [Obs.]Wyclif.
ACCEPTOR
One who accepts; specifically (Law & Com.),
ACCESSARILY
In the manner of an accessary.
ACCESSARINESS
The state of being accessary.
ACCESSARY
Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp.,uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. SeeAccessory.To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary. Shak.Amongst many secondary and accessary causes that support monarchy,these are not of least reckoning. Milton.
ACCESSIBILITY
The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach;receptibility. Langhorne.
ACCESSIBLY
In an accessible manner.
ACCESSION
The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit orparoxysm.
ACCESSIONAL
Pertaining to accession; additional. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
ACCESSIVE
Additional.
ACCESSORIAL
Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency,accessorial guilt.
ACCESSORILY
In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.
ACCESSORINESS
The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.
ACCESSORY
Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way;additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal;contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, whenof persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot;accessory sounds in music.
ACCIACCATURA
A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it isprefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalentto the short appoggiatura.
ACCIDENT
A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, asgender, number, case.
ACCIDENTAL
Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling oncertain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightnessand other parts are cast into a deep shadow.
ACCIDENTALISM
Accidental character or effect. Ruskin.
ACCIDENTALITY
The quality of being accidental; accidentalness. [R.]Coleridge.
ACCIDENTALLY
In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance;unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.
ACCIDENTALNESS
The quality of being accidental; casualness.
ACCIDIE
Sloth; torpor. [Obs.] "The sin of accidie." Chaucer.
ACCIPENSER
See Acipenser.
ACCIPIENT
A receiver. [R.] Bailey
ACCIPITER
A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.
ACCIPITRAL
Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.Lowell.
ACCIPITRES
The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hookedbill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families,represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls.
ACCIPITRINE
Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.
ACCISMUS
Affected refusal; coyness.
ACCITE
To cite; to summon. [Obs.]Our heralds now accited all that were Endamaged by the Elians.Chapman.
ACCLAIM
To shout applause.
ACCLAIMER
One who acclaims.
ACCLAMATION
A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of peopleexpressing joy. Acclamation medals are those on which laudatoryacclamations are recorded. Elmes.
ACCLAMATORY
Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.
ACCLIMATABLE
Capable of being acclimated.
ACCLIMATATION
Acclimatization.
ACCLIMATE
To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize. J. H.Newman.
ACCLIMATEMENT
Acclimation. [R.]
ACCLIMATION
The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, orhabituated to a new climate; acclimatization.
ACCLIMATIZABLE
Capable of being acclimatized.
ACCLIMATIZATION
The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a newclimate, or the state of being so inured. Darwin.
ACCLIMATIZE
To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which isnatural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strangeclimate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.
ACCLIMATURE
The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated. [R.]Caldwell.
ACCLIVE
Acclivous. [Obs.]
ACCLIVITOUS
Acclivous. I. Taylor.
ACCLIVITY
A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill,considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending;an upward slope; ascent.
ACCLIVOUS
Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.
ACCLOY
To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; toburden. See Cloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ACCOAST
To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost. [Obs.]Whether high towering or accosting low. Spenser.
ACCOIL
To coil together. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
ACCOLADE
A brace used to join two or more staves.
ACCOMBINATION
A combining together. [R.]
ACCOMMODABLE
That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree. [R.] I.Watts.
ACCOMMODABLENESS
The quality or condition of being accommodable. [R.] Todd.
ACCOMMODATE
To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted. [R.] Boyle.
ACCOMMODATELY
Suitably; fitly. [R.]
ACCOMMODATENESS
Fitness. [R.]
ACCOMMODATING
Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; asan accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.
ACCOMMODATOR
He who, or that which, accommodates. Warburton.
ACCOMPANABLE
Sociable. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
ACCOMPANIER
He who, or that which, accompanies. Lamb.
ACCOMPANIMENT
That which accompanies; something that attends as acircumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to theprincipal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.Specifically: (Mus.)
ACCOMPANIST
The performer in music who takes the accompanying part. Busby.
ACCOMPANY
To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.
ACCOMPLETIVE
Tending to accomplish. [R.]
ACCOMPLICE
An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in anoffense, whether a principal or an accessory. "And thou, the cursedaccomplice of his treason." Johnson.
ACCOMPLICESHIP
The state of being an accomplice. [R.] Sir H. Taylor.
ACCOMPLICITY
The act or state of being an accomplice. [R.]
ACCOMPLISHABLE
Capable of being accomplished; practicable. Carlyle.
ACCOMPLISHER
One who accomplishes.
ACCOMPT
See Account.
ACCOMPTABLE
See Accountable.
ACCOMPTANT
See Accountant.
ACCORD
An agreement between parties in controversy, by whichsatisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed,bars a suit. Blackstone. With one accord, with unanimity.They rushed with one accord into the theater. Acts xix. 29.
ACCORDANCE
Agreement; harmony; conformity. "In strict accordance with thelaw." Macaulay.
ACCORDANCY
Accordance. [R.] Paley.
ACCORDANT
Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; --followed by with or to.Strictly accordant with true morality. Darwin.And now his voice accordant to the string. Coldsmith.
ACCORDANTLY
In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followedby with or to.
ACCORDER
One who accords, assents, or concedes. [R.]
ACCORDING
Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious. "This accordingvoice of national wisdom." Burke. "Mind and soul according well."Tennyson.According to him, every person was to be bought. Macaulay.Our zeal should be according to knowledge. Sprat.
ACCORDION
A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones aregenerated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.
ACCORDIONIST
A player on the accordion.
ACCORDMENT
Agreement; reconcilement. [Obs.] Gower.
ACCORPORATE
To unite; to attach; to incorporate. [Obs.] Milton.
ACCOST
To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to thesea accost." Spenser.
ACCOSTABLE
Approachable; affable. [R.] Hawthorne.
ACCOSTED
Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.
ACCOUCHEMENT
Delivery in childbed
ACCOUCHEUR
A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; anobstetrician.
ACCOUCHEUSE
A midwife. [Recent] Dunglison.
ACCOUNT BOOK
A book in which accounts are kept. Swift.
ACCOUNTABILITY
The state of being accountable; liability to be called on torender an account; accountableness. "The awful idea ofaccountability." R. Hall.
ACCOUNTABLENESS
The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.
ACCOUNTABLY
In an accountable manner.
ACCOUNTANCY
The art or employment of an accountant.
ACCOUNTANT
Accountable. [Obs.] Shak.
ACCOUNTANTSHIP
The office or employment of an accountant.
ACCOUPLE
To join; to couple. [R.]The Englishmen accoupled themselves with the Frenchmen. Hall.
ACCOURAGE
To encourage. [Obs.]
ACCOURT
To treat courteously; to court. [Obs.] Spenser.
ACCREDITATION
The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.
ACCREMENTITIAL
Pertaining to accremention.
ACCREMENTITION
The process of generation by development of blastema, orfission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect likethe individual from which it proceeds.
ACCRESCENCE
Continuous growth; an accretion. [R.]The silent accrescence of belief from the unwatched depositions of ageneral, never contradicted hearsy. Coleridge.
ACCRESCENT
Growing larger after flowering. Gray.
ACCRETE
To make adhere; to add. Earle.
ACCRETIVE
Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.Glanvill.
ACCRIMINATE
To accuse of a crime. [Obs.] -- Ac*crim`i*na"tion, n. [Obs.]
ACCROACHMENT
An encroachment; usurpation. [Obs.] Bailey.
ACCRUAL
Accrument. [R.]
ACCRUE
Something that accrues; advantage accruing. [Obs.]
ACCRUER
The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.
ACCRUMENT
The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.Jer. Taylor.
ACCUBATION
The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by theancients at meals.
ACCUMB
To recline, as at table. [Obs.] Bailey.
ACCUMBENCY
The state of being accumbent or reclining. [R.]
ACCUMBENT
Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against anotherleaf. Gray.Accumbent cotyledons have their edges placed against the caulicle.Eaton.
ACCUMBER
To encumber. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ACCUMULATE
To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together;to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.
ACCUMULATION
The concurrence of several titles to the same proof.Accumulation of energy or power, the storing of energy by means ofweights lifted or masses put in motion; electricity stored.-- An accumulation of degrees (Eng. Univ.), the taking of severaltogether, or at smaller intervals than usual or than is allowed bythe rules.
ACCUMULATIVE
Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass;cumulative; additional.-- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ly, adv.-- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ness, n.
ACCUMULATOR
An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored,such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulicelevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating theenergy of electrical charges, etc.
ACCURACY
The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, thisexemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or toa rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, thevalue of testimony depends on its accuracy.The professed end [of logic] is to teach men to think, to judge, andto reason, with precision and accuracy. Reid.The accuracy with which the piston fits the sides. Lardner.
ACCURATELY
In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error ordefect.
ACCURATENESS
The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness;nicety; precision.
ACCURSE
To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; tocurse; to execrate; to anathematize.And the city shall be accursed. Josh. vi. 17.Thro' you, my life will be accurst. Tennyson.
ACCUSABLE
Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime orfault; blamable; -- with of.
ACCUSAL
Accusation. [R.] Byron.
ACCUSANT
An accuser. Bp. Hall.
ACCUSATIVAL
Pertaining to the accusative case.
ACCUSATIVE
Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greeknouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action orinfluence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object ofmotion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds tothe objective case in English.
ACCUSATORIAL
Accusatory.
ACCUSATORIALLY
By way accusation.
ACCUSATORY
Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatorylibel. Grote.
ACCUSE
Accusation. [Obs.] Shak.
ACCUSED
Charged with offense; as, an accused person.
ACCUSEMENT
Accusation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ACCUSER
One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault.
ACCUSINGLY
In an accusing manner.
ACCUSTOM
To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; -- with to.I shall always fear that he who accustoms himself to fraud in littlethings, wants only opportunity to practice it in greater. Adventurer.
ACCUSTOMABLE
Habitual; customary; wonted. "Accustomable goodness." Latimer.
ACCUSTOMABLY
According to custom; ordinarily; customarily. Latimer.
ACCUSTOMANCE
Custom; habitual use. [Obs.] Boyle.
ACCUSTOMARILY
Customarily. [Obs.]
ACCUSTOMARY
Usual; customary. [Archaic] Featley.
ACCUSTOMEDNESS
Habituation.Accustomedness to sin hardens the heart. Bp. Pearce.
ACELDAMA
The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem,purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master,and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.: A field of bloodshed.The system of warfare . . . which had already converted immensetracts into one universal aceldama. De Quincey.
ACENTRIC
Not centered; without a center.
ACEPHAL
One of the Acephala.
ACEPHALA
That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalveshells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have noevident head. Formerly the group included the Tunicata, Brachiopoda,and sometimes the Bryozoa. See Mollusca.
ACEPHALAN
Same as Acephal.
ACEPHALIST
One who acknowledges no head or superior. Dr. Gauden.
ACEPHALOCYST
A larval entozoรถn in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle,or hy datid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of manand the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head orvisible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages ofcertain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin.
ACEPHALOCYSTIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts.
ACEPHALOUS
Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.
ACEQUIA
A canal or trench for irrigating land. [Sp. Amer.]
ACERATE
A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.
ACERB
Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharpand harsh.
ACERBATE
To sour; to imbitter; to irritate.
ACERBIC
Sour or severe.
ACERBITUDE
Sourness and harshness. [Obs.] Bailey.
ACERIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid.Ure.
ACEROUS
Same as Acerose.
ACERVAL
Pertaining to a heap. [Obs.]
ACERVATE
To heap up. [Obs.]
ACERVATION
A heaping up; accumulation. [R.] Johnson.
ACERVATIVE
Heaped up; tending to heap up.
ACERVOSE
Full of heaps. [R.] Bailey.
ACERVULINE
Resembling little heaps.
ACESCENT
Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour.Faraday.
ACETABLE
An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint. [Obs.] Holland.
ACETABULAR
Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform.
ACETABULIFERA
The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnishedwith cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus;the Dibranchiata. See Cephalopoda.
ACETABULIFEROUS
Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, ascuttlefish, etc.
ACETABULIFORM
Shaped like a shallow; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliformcalyx. Gray.
ACETABULUM
A vinegar cup; socket of the hip bone; a measure of about oneeighth of a pint, etc.
ACETAL
A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidationof alcohol under the influence of platinum black.
ACETALDEHYDE
Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.
ACETAMIDE
A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of anequivalent of hydrogen by acetyl.
ACETANILIDE
A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain;-- called also antifebrine.
ACETARIOUS
Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.
ACETARY
An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear. Grew.
ACETATE
A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base orpositive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.
ACETATED
Combined with acetic acid.
ACETIFICATION
The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting,or of becoming converted, into vinegar.
ACETIFIER
An apparatus for hastening acetification. Knight.
ACETIFY
To convert into acid or vinegar.
ACETIMETER
An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid invinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid.
ACETIMETRY
The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, orthe proportion of acetic acid contained in it. Ure.
ACETIN
A combination of acetic acid with glycerin. Brande & C.
ACETIZE
To acetify. [R.]
ACETOL
Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same.
ACETOMETER
Same as Acetimeter. Brande & C.
ACETONE
A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six ofhydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by thedistillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillationof citric acid, starch, sugar, or gum, with quicklime.
ACETONIC
Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies.
ACETONURIA
Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.
ACETOPHENONE
A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by thedry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic andbenzoic acids. It is used as a hypnotic under the name of hypnone.
ACETOSE
Sour like vinegar; acetous.
ACETOSITY
The quality of being acetous; sourness.
ACETYL
A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts ofcarbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide isacetic acid.
ACETYLENE
A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion oftwo atoms of the former to two of the latter. It is a colorless gas,with a peculiar, unpleasant odor, and is produced for use as anilluminating gas in a number of ways, but chiefly by the action ofwater on calcium carbide. Its light is very brilliant. Watts.
ACHARNEMENT
Savage fierceness; ferocity.
ACHATE
An agate. [Obs.] Evelyn.
ACHATINA
A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm partsof America and Africa.
ACHATOUR
Purveyor; acater. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ACHE
Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, orspasmodic pain. "Such an ache in my bones." Shak.
ACHEAN
See Achรฆan, Achaian.
ACHENIAL
Pertaining to an achene.
ACHERON
A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, theinfernal regions themselves. By some of the English poets it wassupposed to be a flaming lake or gulf. Shak.
ACHERONTIC
Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy;moribund.
ACHIEVABLE
Capable of being achieved. Barrow.
ACHIEVANCE
Achievement. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
ACHIEVEMENT
An escutcheon or ensign armorial; now generally applied to thefuneral shield commonly called hatchment. Cussans.
ACHIEVER
One who achieves; a winner.
ACHILLEAN
Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.
ACHILOUS
Without a lip.
ACHING
That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.-- Ach"ing*ly, adv.The aching heart, the aching head. Longfellow.
ACHIOTE
Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto.
ACHLAMYDATE
Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods.
ACHLAMYDEOUS
Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla.
ACHOLIA
Deficiency or want of bile.
ACHOLOUS
Lacking bile.
ACHROMATIC
Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it intoits primary colors.
ACHROMATICALLY
In an achromatic manner.
ACHROMATICITY
Achromatism.
ACHROMATIN
Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes. W. Flemming.
ACHROMATISM
The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatismof a lens; achromaticity. Nichol.
ACHROMATIZATION
The act or process of achromatizing.
ACHROMATIZE
To deprive of color; to make achromatic.
ACHROMATOPSY
Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.
ACHROMATOUS
Lacking, or deficient in, color; as, achromatous blood.
ACHROMIC
Free from color; colorless; as, in Physiol. Chem., the achromicpoint of a starch solution acted upon by an amylolytic enzyme is thepoint at which it fails to give any color with iodine.
ACHRONIC
See Acronyc.
ACHROOUS
Colorless; achromatic.
ACHYLOUS
Without chyle.
ACHYMOUS
Without chyme.
ACICULA
One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of someanimals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal.
ACICULAR
Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leavesor crystals; also, having sharp points like needless. A*cic"u*lar*ly,adv.
ACICULIFORM
Needle-shaped; acicular.
ACICULITE
Needle ore. Brande & C.
ACID
One of a class of compounds, generally but not alwaysdistinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddeningof vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized bythe power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies orbases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losingtheir own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united witha more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generallywith oxygen, and take their names from this negative element orradical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracidsin distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids oroxacids.
ACID PROCESS
That variety of either the Bessemer or the open-hearth processin which the converter or hearth is lined with acid, that is, highlysiliceous, material. Opposed to basic process.
ACIDIC
Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. anacidic solution.
ACIDIFEROUS
Containing or yielding an acid.
ACIDIFIABLE
Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid.
ACIDIFIC
Producing acidity; converting into an acid. Dana.
ACIDIFICATION
The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid.
ACIDIFIER
A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary toproduce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.
ACIDIMETER
An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids. Ure.
ACIDIMETRY
The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by achemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or thefact that, to produce a complete reaction, a certain definite weightof reagent is required.-- Ac`id*i*met"ric*al, a.
ACIDITY
The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to thetaste; as, the acidity of lemon juice.
ACIDLY
Sourly; tartly.
ACIDNESS
Acidity; sourness.
ACIDULATE
To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat.Arbuthnot.
ACIDULENT
Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous. "With anxious,acidulent face." Carlyle.
ACIDULOUS
Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture. E.Burke. Acidulous mineral waters, such as contain carbonic anhydride.
ACIERAGE
The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as astereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaicelectricity; steeling.
ACIFORM
Shaped like a needle.
ACINACEOUS
Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them.
ACINACES
A short sword or saber.
ACINACIFORM
Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf.
ACINESIA
Same as Akinesia.
ACINETAE
A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage arestationary. See Suctoria.
ACINETIFORM
Resembling the Acinetรฆ.
ACINIFORM
Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as,acinose or acinous glands. Kirwan.
ACINUS
One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose orcompound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recessesin the lobules of a racemose gland. Quain.
ACIPENSER
A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having thebody armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of thehead. See Sturgeon.
ACIURGY
Operative surgery.
ACKNOWLEDGEDLY
Confessedly.
ACKNOWLEDGER
One who acknowledges.
ACLINIC
Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needlebalances itself horizontally, having no dip. The aclinic line is alsotermed the magnetic equator. Prof. August.
ACME
The crisis or height of a disease.
ACNE
A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in thesebaceous glands.
ACNODAL
Pertaining to acnodes.
ACNODE
An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coรถrdinatessatisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered asbelonging to the curve.
ACOCK
In a cocked or turned up fashion.
ACOLD
Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak.
ACOLOGIC
Pertaining to acology.
ACOLOGY
Materia medica; the science of remedies.
ACOLOTHIST
See Acolythist.
ACOLYCTINE
An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained fromAconitum lycoctonum. Eng. Cyc.
ACOLYTE
One who has received the highest of the four minor orders inthe Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water andthe lights at the Mass.
ACOLYTH
Same as Acolyte.
ACOLYTHIST
An acolyte. [Obs.]
ACONITAL
Of the nature of aconite.
ACONITE
The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant ofthe genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which arepoisonous.
ACONITIA
Same as Aconitine.
ACONITIC
Of or pertaining to aconite.
ACONITINE
An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite.
ACONITUM
The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it.Strong As aconitum or rash gunpowder. Shak.
ACONTIA
Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells(cnidรฆ), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniรฆwhen irritated.
ACONTIAS
Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus ofreptiles closely allied to the lizards.
ACOPIC
Relieving weariness; restorative.
ACORN
A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle abovethe vane, on the mast-head.
ACORN CUP
The involucre or cup in which the acorn is fixed.
ACORN-SHELL
One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus.See Barnacle.
ACOSMISM
A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God.
ACOSMIST
One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universeas distinct from God. G. H. Lewes.
ACOTYLEDON
A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and allflowerless plants.
ACOTYLEDONOUS
Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plantswhich have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc.
ACOUCHY
A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy).
ACOUMETER
An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense ofhearing. Itard.
ACOUMETRY
The measuring of the power or extent of hearing.
ACOUSTIC
Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, orthe science of sounds; auditory. Acoustic duct, the auditory duct, orexternal passage of the ear.-- Acoustic telegraph, a telegraph making audible signals; atelephone.-- Acoustic vessels, brazen tubes or vessels, shaped like a bell,used in ancient theaters to propel the voices of the actors, so as torender them audible to a great distance.
ACOUSTICAL
Of or pertaining to acoustics.
ACOUSTICALLY
In relation to sound or to hearing. Tyndall.
ACOUSTICIAN
One versed in acoustics. Tyndall.
ACOUSTICS
The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, andlaws.Acoustics, then, or the science of sound, is a very considerablebranch of physics. Sir J. Herschel.
ACQUAINT
Acquainted. [Obs.]
ACQUAINTABLE
Easy to be acquainted with; affable. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
ACQUAINTANCESHIP
A state of being acquainted; acquaintance. Southey.
ACQUAINTANT
An acquaintance. [R.] Swift.
ACQUAINTED
Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, underAcquaint, v. t.
ACQUAINTEDNESS
State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance. [R.] Boyle.
ACQUEST
Property acquired by purchase, gift, or otherwise than byinheritance. Bouvier.
ACQUIESCENCY
The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence.
ACQUIESCENT
Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit;assentive; as, an acquiescent policy.
ACQUIESCENTLY
In an acquiescent manner.
ACQUIET
To quiet. [Obs.]Acquiet his mind from stirring you against your own peace. Sir A.Sherley.
ACQUIRABILITY
The quality of being acquirable; attainableness. [R.] Paley.
ACQUIRABLE
Capable of being acquired.
ACQUIRE
To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own;as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.No virtue is acquired in an instant, but step by step. Barrow.Descent is the title whereby a man, on the death of his ancestor,acquires his estate, by right of representation, as his heir at law.Blackstone.
ACQUIREMENT
The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment."Rules for the acquirement of a taste." Addison.His acquirements by industry were . . . enriched and enlarged by manyexcellent endowments of nature. Hayward.
ACQUIRER
A person who acquires.
ACQUIRY
Acquirement. [Obs.] Barrow.
ACQUISITE
Acquired. [Obs.] Burton.
ACQUISITIVELY
In the way of acquisition.
ACQUISITIVENESS
The faculty to which the phrenologists attribute the desire ofacquiring and possessing. Combe.
ACQUISITOR
One who acquires.
ACQUIST
Acquisition; gain. Milton.
ACQUIT
Acquitted; set free; rid of. [Archaic] Shak.
ACQUITMENT
Acquittal. [Obs.] Milton.
ACQUITTAL
A setting free, or deliverance from the charge of an offense,by verdict of a jury or sentence of a court. Bouvier.
ACQUITTANCE
To acquit. [Obs.] Shak.
ACQUITTER
One who acquits or releases.
ACRANIA
Partial or total absence of the skull.
ACRANIAL
Wanting a skull.
ACRASPEDA
A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes;the Discophora.
ACREABLE
Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.
ACREAGE
Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.
ACRED
Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition;as, large-acred men.
ACRID
The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness;acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.
ACRIDLY
In an acid manner.
ACRIMONIOUSLY
In an acrimonious manner.
ACRIMONIOUSNESS
The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.
ACRIMONY
Undecided character of a disease. [Obs.]
ACRITA
The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system hasbeen observed.
ACRITAN
Of or pertaining to the Acrita.-- n. An individual of the Acrita.
ACRITE
Acritan. Owen.
ACRITICAL
Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as,acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess.
ACRITOCHROMACY
Color blindness; achromatopsy.
ACRITUDE
Acridity; pungency joined with heat. [Obs.]
ACRITY
Sharpness; keenness. [Obs.]
ACROATIC
Same as Acroamatic.
ACROBAT
One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daringgymnastic feats.
ACROBATIC
Pertaining to an acrobat.-- Ac`ro*bat"ic*al*ly, adv.
ACROBATISM
Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting.
ACROCEPHALIC
Characterized by a high skull.
ACROCEPHALY
Loftiness of skull.
ACROCERAUNIAN
Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of "thunder-smitten" peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia. Shelley.
ACRODACTYLUM
The upper surface of the toes, individually.
ACRODONT
One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united tothe top of the alveolar ridge.-- a. Of or pertaining to the acrodonts.
ACROGEN
A plant of the highest class of cryptograms, including theferns, etc. See Cryptogamia. The Age of Acrogens (Geol.), the age ofcoal plants, or the carboniferous era.
ACROGENOUS
Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenousplant.
ACROLEIN
A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by thedehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutralfats containing glycerin. Its vapors are intensely irritating. Watts.
ACROLITH
A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk beinggenerally of wood. Elmes.
ACROMEGALY
Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.
ACROMIAL
Of or pertaining to the acromion. Dunglison.
ACROMION
The outer extremity of the shoulder blade.
ACROMONOGRAMMATIC
Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with whichthe preceding verse ends.
ACRONYCALLY
In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, andvise versรข.
ACRONYCTOUS
Acronycal.
ACROOK
Crookedly. [R.] Udall.
ACROPETAL
Developing from below towards the apex, or from thecircumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certaininflorescence.
ACROPHONY
The use of a picture symbol of an object to representphonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.
ACROPODIUM
The entire upper surface of the foot.
ACROPOLIS
The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially,the citadel of Athens.
ACROPOLITAN
Pertaining to an acropolis.
ACROSPIRE
The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate;the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form.
ACROSPORE
A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructificationin fungi.
ACROSPOROUS
Having acrospores.
ACROSS
From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a directionopposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river.Dryden. To come across, to come upon or meet incidentally. Freeman.-- To go across the country, to go by a direct course across aregion without following the roads.
ACROSTIC
Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics.
ACROSTICALLY
After the manner of an acrostic.
ACROTARSIUM
The instep or front of the tarsus.
ACROTELEUTIC
The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to besung by the people, by way of a response.
ACROTER
Same as Acroterium.
ACROTERIAL
Pertaining to an acroterium; as, ornaments. P. Cyc.
ACROTIC
Pertaining to or affecting the surface.
ACROTISM
Lack or defect of pulsation.
ACROTOMOUS
Having a cleavage parallel with the base.
ACRYLIC
Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of whichacrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid.
ACTABLE
Capable of being acted. Tennyson.
ACTINAL
Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains themouth. L. Agassiz.
ACTINARIA
A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simpletentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense,applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether formingcorals or not.
ACTINIC
Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays.
ACTINIFORM
Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.
ACTINISM
The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar orelectric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as inphotography.
ACTINIUM
A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercialzinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened byexposure to light.
ACTINO-CHEMISTRY
Chemistry in its relations to actinism. Draper.
ACTINOGRAM
A record made by the actinograph.
ACTINOGRAPH
An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in theactinic or chemical force of rays of light. Nichol.
ACTINOID
Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia.
ACTINOLITE
A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually infibrous or columnar masses.
ACTINOLITIC
Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite.
ACTINOLOGY
The science which treats of rays of light, especially of theactinic or chemical rays.
ACTINOMERE
One of the radial segments composing the body of one of theCoelenterata.
ACTINOMETRIC
Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solarrays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic.
ACTINOMYCOSIS
A chronic infectious disease of cattle and man due to thepresence of Actinomyces bovis. It causes local suppurating tumors,esp. about the jaw. Called also lumpy jaw or big jaw. --Ac`ti*no*my*cot"ic (#), a.
ACTINOPHONE
An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of theactinic, or ultraviolet, rays.
ACTINOPHONIC
Pertaining to, or causing the production of, sound by means ofthe actinic, or ultraviolet, rays; as, actinophonic phenomena.
ACTINOPHOROUS
Having straight projecting spines.
ACTINOSOME
The entire body of a coelenterate.
ACTINOST
(Anat.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish.
ACTINOSTOME
The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal.
ACTINOTROCHA
A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms,having a circle of ciliated tentacles.
ACTINOZOA
A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa Ctenophora.The sea anemone, or actinia, is a familiar example.
ACTINOZOAL
Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.
ACTINULA
A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having astellate form.
ACTION
Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of agun.
ACTIONABLE
That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, tocall a man a thief is actionable.
ACTIONABLY
In an actionable manner.
ACTIONLESS
Void of action.
ACTIVATE
To make active. [Obs.]
ACTIVELY
In an active signification; as, a word used actively.
ACTIVENESS
The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion;activity.
ACTIVITY
The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility;vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasingvariety of human activities. "The activity of toil." Palfrey.
ACTLESS
Without action or spirit. [R.]
ACTON
A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacketplated with mail. [Spelled also hacqueton.] [Obs.] Halliwell. Sir W.Scott.
ACTUAL
Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated,receipts. [Cant]The accounts of revenues supplied . . . were not real receipts: not,in financial language, "actuals," but only Egyptian budget estimates.Fortnightly Review.
ACTUALIST
One who deals with or considers actually existing facts andconditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.J. Grote.
ACTUALITY
The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God'snature. South.
ACTUALIZATION
A making actual or really existent. [R.] Emerson.
ACTUALIZE
To make actual; to realize in action. [R.] Coleridge.
ACTUALNESS
Quality of being actual; actuality.
ACTUARIAL
Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of anannuity.
ACTUARY
A registar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil lawjurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registar generally.
ACTUATE
Put in action; actuated. [Obs.] South.
ACTUATION
A bringing into action; movement. Bp. Pearson.
ACTUATOR
One who actuates, or puts into action. [R.] Melville.
ACTUOSE
Very active. [Obs.]
ACTUOSITY
Abundant activity. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
ACTURE
Action. [Obs.] Shak.
ACTURIENCE
Tendency or impulse to act. [R.]Acturience, or desire of action, in one form or another, whether asrestlessness, ennui, dissatisfaction, or the imagination of somethingdesirable. J. Grote.
ACUATE
To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken. [Obs.] "[To] acuatethe blood." Harvey.
ACUATION
Act of sharpening. [R.]
ACUITION
The act of sharpening. [Obs.]
ACUITY
Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.
ACULEATE
Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.
ACULEATED
Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.
ACULEIFORM
Like a prickle.
ACULEOLATE
Having small prickles or sharp points. Gray.
ACULEOUS
Aculeate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ACULEUS
A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.Lindley.
ACUMEN
Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind;the faculty of nice discrimination. Selden.
ACUMINATE
Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc.
ACUMINATION
A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.Bp. Pearson.
ACUMINOSE
Terminating in a flat, narrow end. Lindley.
ACUMINOUS
Characterized by acumen; keen. Highmore.
ACUPRESSURE
A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds orsurgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle,the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneoussurface. Simpson.
ACUPUNCTURATION
See Acupuncture.
ACUPUNCTURE
Pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.):
ACUSTUMAUNCE
See Accustomance. [Obs.]
ACUTANGULAR
Acute-angled.
ACUTE
Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and comingspeedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease.Acute angle (Geom.), an angle less than a right angle.
ACUTE-ANGLED
Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a trianglewith every one of its angles less than a right angle.
ACUTELY
In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.
ACUTENESS
Violence of a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.
ACUTIFOLIATE
Having sharp-pointed leaves.
ACUTILOBATE
Having acute lobes, as some leaves.
ACUTORSION
The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage.
ACYCLIC
Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as: (a) (Bot.)
ACYL
An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.
AD CAPTANDUM
A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts tocatch or win popular favor.
AD HOMINEM
` phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to theprinciples, interests, or passions of a man.
AD INFINITUM
Without limit; endlessly.
AD INTERIM
Meanwhile; temporary.
AD LIBITUM
. At one's pleasure; as one wishes.
AD VALOREM
A term used to denote a duty or charge laid upon goods, at acertain rate per cent upon their value, as stated in their invoice, -- in opposition to a specific sum upon a given quantity or number;as, an ad valorem duty of twenty per cent.
AD-
As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-,ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the wordto which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, andbefore d, h, j, m, v. Examples: adduce, adhere, adjacent, admit,advent, accord, affect, aggregate, allude, annex, appear, etc. Itbecomes ac- before qu, as in acquiesce.
ADACT
To compel; to drive. [Obs.] Fotherby.
ADAGE
An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; aproverb.Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would," Like the poor cat i' theadage. Shak.
ADAGIAL
Pertaining to an adage; proverbial. "Adagial verse." Barrow.
ADAGIO
Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio,adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow.
ADAM
"Original sin;" human frailty.And whipped the offending Adam out of him. Shak.Adam's ale, water. [Coll.] -- Adam's apple.
ADAMANTEAN
Of adamant; hard as adamant. Milton.
ADAMANTINE
Like the diamond in hardness or luster.
ADAMBULACRAL
Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of thestarfish.
ADAMITE
One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate thestate of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.
ADANCE
Dancing. Lowell.
ADANGLE
Dangling. Browning.
ADANSONIA
A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are twospecies, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India,and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia.Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and awide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantlyacid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the nativesfor making ropes and cloth. D. C. Eaton.
ADAPT
Fitted; suited. [Obs.] Swift.
ADAPTABLE
Capable of being adapted.
ADAPTATIVE
Adaptive. Stubbs.
ADAPTEDNESS
The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; specialfitness.
ADAPTER
A connecting tube; an adopter.
ADAPTION
Adaptation. Cheyne.
ADAPTIVE
Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized byadaptation; capable of adapting. Coleridge.-- A*dapt"ive*ly, adv.
ADAPTIVENESS
The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.
ADAPTLY
In a suitable manner. [R.] Prior.
ADAPTNESS
Adaptedness. [R.]
ADAPTORIAL
Adaptive. [R.]
ADAR
The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and thesixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March.
ADARCE
A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds inGalatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansingthe skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. Dana.
ADATIS
A fine cotton cloth of India.
ADAUNT
To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate. [Obs.] Skelton.
ADAW
To subdue; to daunt. [Obs.]The sight whereof did greatly him adaw. Spenser.
ADAYS
By day, or every day; in the daytime. [Obs.] Fielding.
ADDABLE
Addible.
ADDAX
One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx,nasomaculatus).
ADDEEM
To award; to adjudge. [Obs.] "Unto him they did addeem theprise." Spenser.
ADDENDUM
A thing to be added; an appendix or addition. Addendum circle(Mech.), the circle which may be described around a circular spurwheel or gear wheel, touching the crests or tips of the teeth.Rankine.
ADDER
One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for addingnumbers.
ADDER FLY
A dragon fly.
ADDERWORT
The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).
ADDIBILITY
The quantity of being addible; capability of addition. Locke.
ADDIBLE
Capable of being added. "Addible numbers." Locke.
ADDICE
See Adze. [Obs.] Moxon.
ADDICT
Addicted; devoted. [Obs.]
ADDICTEDNESS
The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.
ADDICTION
The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination. "Hisaddiction was to courses vain." Shak.
ADDITAMENT
An addition, or a thing added. Fuller.My persuasion that the latter verses of the chapter were anadditament of a later age. Coleridge.
ADDITION
That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.
ADDITIONAL
Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.
ADDITIONALLY
By way of addition.
ADDITIONARY
Additional. [R.] Herbert.
ADDITITIOUS
Additive. [R.] Sir J. Herschel.
ADDITIVE
Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.
ADDITORY
Tending to add; making some addition. [R.] Arbuthnot.
ADDLE
Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, aseggs; putrid. Hence: Unfruitful or confused, as brains; muddled.Dryden.
ADDLE-PATEDNESS
Stupidity.
ADDLINGS
Earnings. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
ADDOOM
To adjudge. [Obs.] Spenser.
ADDORSED
Set or turned back to back.
ADDRESS
To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent orfactor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore. Toaddress one's self to. (a) To prepare one's self for; to apply one'sself to. (b) To direct one's speech or discourse to.
ADDRESSEE
One to whom anything is addressed.
ADDRESSION
The act of addressing or directing one's course. [Rare & Obs.]Chapman.
ADDUCE
To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, orconsideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.Reasons . . . were adduced on both sides. Macaulay.Enough could not be adduced to satisfy the purpose of illustration.De Quincey.
ADDUCENT
Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word appliedto those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another.Opposed to abducent.
ADDUCER
One who adduces.
ADDUCIBLE
Capable of being adduced.Proofs innumerable, and in every imaginable manner diversified, areadducible. I. Taylor.
ADDUCT
To draw towards a common center or a middle line. Huxley.
ADDUCTION
The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards itsaxis]; -- opposed to abduction. Dunglison.
ADDUCTIVE
Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.
ADDUCTOR
A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward themiddle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; --opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eyetoward the nose.In the bivalve shells, the muscles which close the values of theshell are called adductor muscles. Verrill.
ADDULCE
To sweeten; to soothe. [Obs.] Bacon.
ADEEM
To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by someother gift.
ADELANTADILLO
A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.
ADELANTADO
A governor of a province; a commander. Prescott.
ADELASTER
A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowersbotanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to itsproper genus.
ADELING
Same as Atheling.
ADELOCODONIC
Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike formand do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.
ADELOPOD
An animal having feet that are not apparent.
ADELPHIA
A "brotherhood," or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- usedin composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.
ADELPHOUS
Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens;as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.Gray.
ADEMPT
Takes away. [Obs.]Without any sinister suspicion of anything being added or adempt.Latimn.
ADEMPTION
The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, orthe like. Bouvier.
ADEN ULCER
A disease endemic in various parts of tropical Asia, due to aspecific microรถrganism which produces chronic ulcers on the limbs. Itis often fatal. Called also Cochin China ulcer, Persian ulcer,tropical ulcer, etc.
ADENIFORM
Shaped like a gland; adenoid. Dunglison.
ADENITIS
Glandular inflammation. Dunglison.
ADENOGRAPHIC
Pertaining to adenography.
ADENOGRAPHY
That part of anatomy which describes the glands.
ADENOLOGICAL
Pertaining to adenology.
ADENOLOGY
The part of physiology that treats of the glands.
ADENOMA
A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement ofa gland. -- Ad`e*nom"a*tous, a.
ADENOPATHY
Disease of a gland.
ADENOPHOROUS
Producing glands.
ADENOPHYLLOUS
Having glands on the leaves.
ADENOSCLEROSIS
The hardening of a gland.
ADENOSE
Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.
ADENOTOMIC
Pertaining to adenotomy.
ADENOTOMY
Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.
ADENOUS
Same as Adenose.
ADEPS
Animal fat; lard.
ADEPT
One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as,adepts in philosophy.
ADEPTION
An obtaining; attainment. [Obs.]In the wit and policy of the capitain consisteth the chief adeptionof the victory. Grafton.
ADEPTIST
A skilled alchemist. [Obs.]
ADEPTNESS
The quality of being adept; skill.
ADEQUACY
The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, orsufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacyof supply to the expenditure.
ADEQUATE
Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent;fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequatedefinition.Ireland had no adequate champion. De Quincey.
ADEQUATELY
In an adequate manner.
ADEQUATENESS
The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency;adequacy.
ADEQUATION
The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; anequivalent. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.
ADESMY
The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usuallyentire.
ADESSENARIAN
One who held the real presence of Christ's body in theeucharist, but not by transubstantiation.
ADFECTED
See Affected, 5.
ADFILIATED
See Affiliated. [Obs.]
ADFILIATION
See Affiliation. [Obs.]
ADFLUXION
See Affluxion.
ADHAMANT
Clinging, as by hooks.
ADHERENT
Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyxwith ovary, or stamens with petals.
ADHERENTLY
In an adherent manner.
ADHERER
One who adheres; an adherent.
ADHESION
The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. SeeCohesion.
ADHESIVELY
In an adhesive manner.
ADHESIVENESS
Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and topromote social intercourse.
ADHIBITION
The act of adhibiting; application; use. Whitaker.
ADHORT
To exhort; to advise. [Obs.] Feltham.
ADHORTATION
Advice; exhortation. [Obs.] Peacham.
ADHORTATORY
Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory. [Obs.]Potter.
ADIABATIC
Not giving out or receiving heat.-- Ad`i*a*bat`ic*al*ly, adv. Adiabatic line or curve, a curveexhibiting the variations of pressure and volume of a fluid when itexpands without either receiving or giving out heat. Rankine.
ADIACTINIC
Not transmitting the actinic rays.
ADIANTUM
A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair.Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort.
ADIAPHORISM
Religious indifference.
ADIAPHORIST
One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held someopinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, whichLuther condemned as sinful or heretical. Murdock.
ADIAPHORISTIC
Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.Shipley.
ADIAPHORITE
Same as Adiaphorist.
ADIAPHOROUS
Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.Dunglison.
ADIAPHORY
Indifference. [Obs.]
ADIATHERMIC
Not pervious to heat.
ADIEU
Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.
ADIGHT
To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress. [Obs.]
ADIOS
Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish-speaking people.
ADIPESCENT
Becoming fatty.
ADIPIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; --applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitricacid.
ADIPOCERATE
To convert adipocere.
ADIPOCERATION
The act or process of changing into adipocere.
ADIPOCERE
A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color,into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes areconverted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places.It is a result of fatty degeneration.
ADIPOCERIFORM
Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, anadipoceriform tumor.
ADIPOCEROUS
Like adipocere.
ADIPOGENOUS
Producing fat.
ADIPOLYSIS
The digestion of fats.
ADIPOLYTIC
Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin andfree fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolyticaction.
ADIPOMA
A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor. --Ad`i*pom"a*tous, a.
ADIPOSE
Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty. Adipose fin (Zoรถl.), asoft boneless fin.-- Adipose tissue (Anat.), that form of animal tissue which forms orcontains fat.
ADIPOUS
Fatty; adipose. [R.]
ADIPSOUS
Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.
ADIPSY
Absence of thirst.
ADJACENT
Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on;as, a field adjacent to the highway. "The adjacent forest." B.Jonson. Adjacent or contiguous angle. (Geom.) See Angle.
ADJACENTLY
So as to be adjacent.
ADJECT
To add or annex; to join. Leland.
ADJECTION
The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added. [R.] B.Jonson.
ADJECTIONAL
Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed. [R.]Earle.
ADJECTITIOUS
Added; additional. Parkhurst.
ADJECTIVAL
Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the natureof an adjective; adjective. W. Taylor (1797)
ADJECTIVALLY
As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.
ADJECTIVE
A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a qualityof the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit ordefine it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct fromsomething else. Thus, in phrase, "a wise ruler," wise is theadjective, expressing a property of ruler.
ADJECTIVELY
In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.
ADJOIN
To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contactwith; to attach; to append.Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note.Watts.
ADJOINANT
Contiguous. [Obs.] Carew.
ADJOINING
Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room. "Theadjoining fane." Dryden.Upon the hills adjoining to the city. Shak.
ADJOINT
An adjunct; a helper. [Obs.]
ADJOURN
To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; topostpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of themeeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting;to adjourn a debate.It is a common practice to adjourn the reformation of their lives toa further time. Barrow.'Tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day.Shak.
ADJOURNAL
Adjournment; postponement. [R.] "An adjournal of the Diet." SirW. Scott.
ADJUDGER
One who adjudges.
ADJUDGMENT
The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication. Sir W.Temple.
ADJUDICATE
To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle byjudicial decree.
ADJUDICATION
The decision upon the question whether the debtor is abankrupt. Abbott.
ADJUDICATIVE
Adjudicating.
ADJUDICATOR
One who adjudicates.
ADJUDICATURE
Adjudication.
ADJUGATE
To yoke to. [Obs.]
ADJUMENT
Help; support; also, a helper. [Obs.] Waterhouse.
ADJUNCT
Conjoined; attending; consequent.Though that my death were adjunct to my act. Shak.Adjunct notes (Mus.), short notes between those essential to theharmony; auxiliary notes; passing notes.
ADJUNCTION
The act of joining; the thing joined or added.
ADJUNCTIVE
Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.
ADJUNCTIVELY
In an adjunctive manner.
ADJUNCTLY
By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.
ADJURATORY
Containing an adjuration.
ADJURE
To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, orunder the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn orimpressive manner; to entreat earnestly.Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man beforethe Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho. Josh. vi.26.The high priest . . . said . . . I adjure thee by the living God,that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. Matt. xxvi. 63.The commissioners adjured them not to let pass so favorable anopportunity of securing their liberties. Marshall.
ADJURER
One who adjures.
ADJUSTABLE
Capable of being adjusted.
ADJUSTAGE
Adjustment. [R.]
ADJUSTER
One who, or that which, adjusts.
ADJUSTIVE
Tending to adjust. [R.]
ADJUSTMENT
Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflictingclaims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, andmarshaling. Bispham.
ADJUTAGE
Same as Ajutage.
ADJUTANT
A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, orcommanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details ofregimental and garrison duty. Adjutant general (a) (Mil.), theprincipal staff officer of an army, through whom the commandinggeneral receives communications and issues military orders. In the U.S. army he is brigadier general. (b) (Among the Jesuits), one of aselect number of fathers, who resided with the general of the order,each of whom had a province or country assigned to his care.
ADJUTATOR
A corruption of Agitator.
ADJUTE
To add. [Obs.]
ADJUTOR
A helper or assistant. [Archaic] Drayton.
ADJUTORY
Serving to help or assist; helping. [Obs.]
ADJUTRIX
A female helper or assistant. [R.]
ADJUVANT
Helping; helpful; assisting. [R.] "Adjuvant causes." Howell.
ADLEGATION
A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire ofjoining their own ministers with those of the emperor in publictreaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.Encyc. Brit.
ADLOCUTION
See Allocution. [Obs.]
ADMARGINATE
To write in the margin. [R.] Coleridge.
ADMAXILLARY
Near to the maxilla or jawbone.
ADMEASURE
To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment;as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture. Blackstone.
ADMEASURER
One who admeasures.
ADMENSURATION
Same as Admeasurement.
ADMINICLE
Corroborative or explanatory proof.
ADMINICULAR
Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as,adminicular evidence. H. Spencer.
ADMINICULARY
Adminicular.
ADMINISTER
To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, orwhose will fails of an executor.
ADMINISTERIAL
Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part ofgovernment.
ADMINISTRABLE
Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.
ADMINISTRANT
Executive; acting; managing affairs.-- n.
ADMINISTRATE
To administer. [R.] Milman.
ADMINISTRATIVE
Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, anadministrative body, ability, or energy.-- Ad*min"is*tra`tive*ly, adv.
ADMINISTRATOR
A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or ofa testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the rightof administration has been committed by competent authority.
ADMINISTRATORSHIP
The position or office of an administrator.
ADMINISTRATRIX
A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estateof an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have beengranted; a female administrator.
ADMIRABILITY
Admirableness. [R.] Johnson.
ADMIRABLENESS
The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.
ADMIRABLY
In an admirable manner.
ADMIRAL
A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America.The larva feeds on nettles. Admiral shell (Zoรถl.), the popular nameof an ornamental cone shell (Conus admiralis). Lord High Admiral, agreat officer of state, who (when this rare dignity is conferred) isat the head of the naval administration of Great Britain.
ADMIRALSHIP
The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill ofan admiral.
ADMIRANCE
Admiration. [Obs.] Spenser.
ADMIRATIVE
Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder. [R.] Earle.
ADMIRE
To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; --sometimes with at.To wonder at Pharaoh, and even admire at myself. Fuller.
ADMIRER
One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly. Cowper.
ADMIRING
Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.-- Ad*mir"ing*ly, adv. Shak.
ADMISSIBILITY
The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, theadmissibility of evidence.
ADMISSIBLE
Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that maybe allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardlyadmissible.-- Ad*mis"si*ble*ness, n.-- Ad*mis"si*bly, adv.
ADMISSION
Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, anddistinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposesprior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without suchinquiry.
ADMISSIVE
Implying an admission; tending to admit. [R.] Lamb.
ADMISSORY
Pertaining to admission.
ADMITTABLE
Admissible. Sir T. Browne.
ADMITTANCE
The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate. Bouvier.
ADMITTATUR
The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.
ADMITTER
One who admits.
ADMIX
To mingle with something else; to mix. [R.]
ADMIXTION
A mingling of different things; admixture. Glanvill.
ADMONISHER
One who admonishes.
ADMONISHMENT
Admonition. [R.] Shak.
ADMONITION
Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault orerror; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution orwarning.
ADMONITIONER
Admonisher. [Obs.]
ADMONITIVE
Admonitory. [R.] Barrow.-- Ad*mon"i*tive*ly, adv.
ADMONITOR
Admonisher; monitor.Conscience is at most times a very faithful and prudent admonitor.Shenstone.
ADMONITORIAL
Admonitory. [R.] "An admonitorial tone." Dickens.
ADMONITORY
That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, anadmonitory glance.-- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv.
ADMONITRIX
A female admonitor.
ADMORTIZATION
The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.
ADMOVE
To move or conduct to or toward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ADNASCENT
Growing to or on something else. "An adnascent plant." Evelyn.
ADNATE
Grown to congenitally.
ADNATION
The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or setsof organs.
ADNOMINAL
Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun. Gibbs.-- Ad*nom"i*nal*ly, adv.
ADNOUN
An adjective, or attribute. [R.] Coleridge.
ADNUBILATED
Clouded; obscured. [R.]
ADOBE
An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective,as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.
ADOLESCENCE
The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood;youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generallyconsidered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one.Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals.
ADOLESCENCY
The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.
ADOLESCENT
Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.Schools, unless discipline were doubly strong, Detain theiradolescent charge too long. Cowper.
ADONAI
A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testamentby the word "Lord".
ADONEAN
Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic. "Fair Adonean Venus." Faber.
ADONIC
Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.-- n.
ADONIS
A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in thechase by a wild boar.
ADONIST
One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated"Jehovah" are really the vowel points of the word "Adonai." SeeJehovist.
ADONIZE
To beautify; to dandify.I employed three good hours at least in adjusting and adonozingmyself. Smollett.
ADOPTABLE
Capable of being adopted.
ADOPTED
Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son,citizen, country, word.-- A*dopt"ed*ly, adv.
ADOPTER
A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one ofwhich admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to anotherreceiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elasticvapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unitetwo vessels whose openings have different diameters. [Written alsoadapter.]
ADOPTIONIST
One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of Godnot by nature but by adoption.
ADOPTIOUS
Adopted. [Obs.]
ADOPTIVE
Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted toadopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.-- A*dopt"ive*ly, adv.
ADORABILITY
Adorableness.
ADORABLENESS
The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration. Johnson.
ADORABLY
In an adorable manner.
ADORE
To adorn. [Obs.]Congealed little drops which do the morn adore. Spenser.
ADOREMENT
The act of adoring; adoration. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ADORER
One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly;an ardent admirer. "An adorer of truth." Clarendon.I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. Shak.
ADORINGLY
With adoration.
ADORN
To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off toadvantage; to render pleasing or attractive.As a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. Isa. lxi. 10.At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned thevenerable place. Goldsmith.
ADORNATION
Adornment. [Obs.]
ADORNER
He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.
ADORNINGLY
By adorning; decoratively.
ADORNMENT
An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.
ADOSCULATION
Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.
ADOWN
From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or onthe ground. [Archaic] "Thrice did she sink adown." Spenser.
ADPRESS
See Appressed.-- Ad*pressed",, a.
ADRAD
Put in dread; afraid. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ADRAGANT
Gum tragacanth. Brande & C.
ADREAD
To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
ADREAMED
Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, todream. [Obs.]
ADRENAL
Suprarenal.
ADRIAN
Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.
ADRIATIC
Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part ofwhich is known as the Gulf of Venice.
ADRIFT
Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy ofwind and waves. Also fig.So on the sea shall be set adrift. Dryden.Were from their daily labor turned adrift. Wordsworth.
ADRIP
In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. D. G. Mitchell.
ADROGATE
To adopt (a person who is his own master).
ADROGATION
A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.
ADROIT
Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of themental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding dangeror escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- appliedto persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply."Adroit in the application of the telescope and quadrant." Horsley."He was adroit in intrigue." Macaulay.
ADROITLY
In an adroit manner.
ADROITNESS
The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.Adroitness was as requisite as courage. Motley.
ADRY
In a dry or thirsty condition. "A man that is adry." Burton.
ADSCITITIOUS
Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious."Adscititious evidence." Bowring.-- Ad`sci*ti"tious*ly, adv.
ADSCRIPT
Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudalserfs.
ADSCRIPTIVE
Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferablewith it. Brougham.
ADSIGNIFICATION
Additional signification. [R.] Tooke.
ADSIGNIFY
To denote additionally. [R.] Tooke.
ADSTRICT
See Astrict, and Astriction.
ADSTRICTORY
See Astrictory.
ADSTRINGENT
See Astringent.
ADSUKI BEAN
A cultivated variety of the Asiatic gram, now introduced intothe United States.
ADULARIA
A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, ororthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; --called by lapidaries moonstone.
ADULATE
To flatter in a servile way. Byron.
ADULATION
Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown fromadulation Shak.
ADULATOR
A servile or hypocritical flatterer. Carlyle.
ADULATORY
Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising;flattering; as, an adulatory address.A mere rant of adulatory freedom. Burke.
ADULATRESS
A woman who flatters with servility.
ADULT
Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength;matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age.
ADULTER
To commit adultery; to pollute. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
ADULTERANT
That which is used to adulterate anything.-- a. Adulterating; as, adulterant agents and processes.
ADULTERATE
To commit adultery. [Obs.]
ADULTERATOR
One who adulterates or corrupts. [R.] Cudworth.
ADULTERER
A man who violates his religious covenant. Jer. ix. 2.
ADULTERESS
A woman who violates her religious engagements. James iv. 4.
ADULTERINE
Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence: Spurious;without the support of law; illegal.When any particular class of artificers or traders thought proper toact as a corporation without a charter, such were called adulterineguilds. Adam Smith.
ADULTERIZE
To commit adultery. Milton.
ADULTEROUSLY
In an adulterous manner.
ADULTERY
The fine and penalty imposed for the offense of adultery.
ADULTNESS
The state of being adult.
ADUMBRANT
Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth.
ADUMBRATION
The shadow or outlines of a figure.
ADUMBRATIVE
Faintly representing; typical. Carlyle.
ADUNATION
A uniting; union. Jer. Taylor.
ADUNCITY
Curvature inwards; hookedness.The aduncity of the beaks of hawks. Pope.
ADUNCOUS
Curved inwards; hooked.
ADURE
To burn up. [Obs.] Bacon.
ADUROL
Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and brominederivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers.
ADUST
Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in theblood. [Obs.] Hence: Atrabilious; sallow; gloomy.
ADUSTED
Burnt; adust. [Obs.] Howell.
ADUSTIBLE
That may be burnt. [Obs.]
ADUSTION
Cauterization. Buchanan.
ADVANCE
Before in place, or beforehand in time; -- used for advanced;as, an advance guard, or that before the main guard or body of anarmy; advance payment, or that made before it is due; advance proofs,advance sheets, pages of a forthcoming volume, received in advance ofthe time of publication.
ADVANCEMENT
Property given, usually by a parent to a child, in advance of afuture distribution.
ADVANCING EDGE
The front edge (in direction of motion) of a supportingsurface; -- contr. with following edge, which is the rear edge.
ADVANCING SURFACE
The first of two or more surfaces arranged in tandem; -- contr.with following surface, which is the rear surface.
ADVANCIVE
Tending to advance. [R.]
ADVANTAGE
To give an advantage to; to further; to promote; to benefit; toprofit.The truth is, the archbishop's own stiffness and averseness to complywith the court designs, advantaged his adversaries against him.Fuller.What is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and losehimself, or be cast away Luke ix. 25.To advantage one's self of, to avail one's self of. [Obs.]
ADVANTAGEABLE
Advantageous. [Obs.]
ADVANTAGEOUS
Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable;useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade isadvantageous to a nation.Advabtageous comparison with any other country. Prescott.You see . . . of what use a good reputation is, and how swift andadvantageous a harbinger it is, wherever one goes. Chesterfield.
ADVANTAGEOUSLY
Profitably; with advantage.
ADVANTAGEOUSNESS
Profitableness.
ADVENE
To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become apart of it, though not essential. [R.]Where no act of the will advenes as a coefficient. Coleridge.
ADVENIENT
Coming from outward causes; superadded. [Obs.]
ADVENT
The period including the four Sundays before Christmas. AdventSunday (Eccl.), the first Sunday in the season of Advent, beingalways the nearest Sunday to the feast of St. Andrew (Now. 30).Shipley.
ADVENTIST
One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who lookfor the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also SecondAdventists. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.
ADVENTITIOUS
Out of the proper or usual place; as, adventitious buds orroots.
ADVENTIVE
Adventitious. Gray.
ADVENTUAL
Relating to the season of advent. Sanderson.
ADVENTURE
To try the chance; to take the risk.I would adventure for such merchandise. Shak.
ADVENTUREFUL
Given to adventure.
ADVENTURESOME
Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome.-- Ad*ven"ture*some*ness, n.
ADVENTURESS
A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position byequivocal means.
ADVENTUROUSLY
In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly.
ADVENTUROUSNESS
The quality or state of being adventurous; daring;venturesomeness.
ADVERB
A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle,adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writeswell; paper extremely white.
ADVERBIAL
Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as,an adverbial phrase or form.
ADVERBIALITY
The quality of being adverbial. Earle.
ADVERBIALIZE
To give the force or form of an adverb to.
ADVERBIALLY
In the manner of an adverb.
ADVERSARIA
A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; acommonplace book; also, commentaries or notes.These parchments are supposed to have been St. Paul's adversaria. Bp.Bull.
ADVERSARIOUS
Hostile. [R.] Southey.
ADVERSARY
One who is turned against another or others with a design tooppose
ADVERSATIVE
Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, anadversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversativeforce.-- Ad*ver"sa*tive*ly, adv.
ADVERSE
To oppose; to resist. [Obs.] Gower.
ADVERSELY
In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise.
ADVERSENESS
The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.
ADVERSION
A turning towards; attention. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
ADVERT
To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed ornotice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said.I may again advert to the distinction. Owen.
ADVERTENT
Attentive; heedful; regardful. Sir M. Hale.-- Ad*vert"ent*ly, adv.
ADVERTISE
To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to makeknown; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject ofinformation; as, to advertise a man of his loss. [Archaic]I will advertise thee what this people shall do. Num. xxiv. 14.
ADVERTISER
One who, or that which, advertises.
ADVICE
Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. Adviceboat, a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; adispatch boat.-- To take advice. (a) To accept advice. (b) To consult with anotheror others.
ADVISABILITY
The quality of being advisable; advisableness.
ADVISABLE-NESS
The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency;advisability.
ADVISABLY
With advice; wisely.
ADVISEDNESS
Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution.
ADVISER
One who advises.
ADVISERSHIP
The office of an adviser. [R.]
ADVISO
Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ADVISORY
Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisorycouncil; their opinion is merely advisory.The General Association has a general advisory superintendence overall the ministers and churches. Trumbull.
ADVOCACY
The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating;intercession.
ADVOCATE
To plead in favor of; to defend by argument, before a tribunalor the public; to support, vindicate, or recommend publicly.To advocate the cause of thy client. Bp. Sanderson (1624).This is the only thing distinct and sensible, that has beenadvocated. Burke.Eminent orators were engaged to advocate his cause. Mitford.
ADVOCATESHIP
Office or duty of an advocate.
ADVOCATION
The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to thesupreme court. Bell.
ADVOCATORY
Of or pertaining to an advocate. [R.]
ADVOKE
To summon; to call. [Obs.]Queen Katharine had privately prevailed with the pope to advoke thecause to Rome. Fuller.
ADVOLUTION
A rolling toward something. [R.]
ADVOUTRER
An adulterer. [Obs.]
ADVOUTRESS
An adulteress. [Obs.] Bacon.
ADVOWEE
One who has an advowson. Cowell.
ADVOWSON
The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in thechurch. [Originally, the relation of a patron (advocatus) orprotector of a benefice, and thus privileged to nominate or presentto it.]
ADVOYER
See Avoyer. [Obs.]
ADWARD
Award. [Obs.] Spenser.
ADYNAMIA
Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.Dunglison.
ADYNAMIC
Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vitalpowers; weak.
ADYNAMY
Adynamia. [R.] Morin.
ADYTUM
The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whenceoracles were given. Hence: A private chamber; a sanctum.
ADZ
To cut with an adz. [R.] Carlyle.
AE
A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxonwriters. It answers to the Gr. รฆ was generally replaced by a, thelong e or ee. In derivatives from Latin words with ae, it is mostlysuperseded by e. For most words found with this initial combination,the reader will therefore search under the letter E.
AECIDIUM
A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts orBrands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants.
AEDILE
A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence ofpublic buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer.
AEDILESHIP
The office of an รฆdile. T. Arnold.
AEGEAN
Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea,east of Greece. See Archipelago.
AEGICRANIA
Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture,representing rams' heads or skulls.
AEGILOPS
An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.
AEGIS
A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to theshield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.: A shield; aprotection.
AEGOPHONY
Same as Egophony.
AEGROTAT
A medical certificate that a student is ill.
AENEID
The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is รneas.
AENEOUS
Colored like bronze.
AEOLIC
รolian, 1; as, the รolic dialect; the รolic mode.
AEOLOTROPIC
Exhibiting differences of quality or property in differentdirections; not isotropic. Sir W. Thomson.
AEOLOTROPY
Difference of quality or property in different directions.
AEOLUS
The god of the winds.
AEON
A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of theDeity. See Eon.
AEONIAN
Eternal; everlasting. "รonian hills." Tennyson.
AEPYORNIS
A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar.
AERATE
To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (theblood) by respiration; to arterialize. Aรซrated bread, bread raised bycharging dough with carbonic acid gas, instead of generating the gasin the dough by fermentation.
AERATION
A change produced in the blood by exposure to the air inrespiration; oxygenation of the blood in respiration;arterialization.
AERATOR
That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used forcharging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.
AERIAL SICKNESS
A sickness felt by aรซronauts due to high speed of flights andrapidity in changing altitudes, combining some symptoms of mountainsickness and some of seasickness.
AERIALITY
The state of being aรซrial; [R.] De Quincey.
AERIALLY
Like, or from, the air; in an aรซrial manner. "A murmur heardaรซrially." Tennyson.
AERIE
The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also abrood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.: A human residence orresting place perched like an eagle's nest.
AERIFEROUS
Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe isan aรซriferous tube.
AERIFORM
Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid;gaseous. Hence fig.: Unreal.
AERO-
The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.
AEROBIC
Growing or thriving only in the presence of oxygen; also,pertaining to, or induced by, aรซrobies; as, aรซrobic fermentation. --A`รซr*o"bic*al*ly (#), adv.
AEROBIES
Microรถrganisms which live in contact with the air and needoxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on thesurface of putrefactive fluids.
AEROBIOTIC
Related to, or of the nature of, aรซrobies; as, aรซrobioticplants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen.
AEROBOAT
A form of hydro-aรซroplane; a flying boat.
AEROBUS
An aรซroplane or airship designed to carry passengers.
AEROCLUB
A club or association of persons interested in aรซronautics.
AEROCURVE
A modification of the aรซroplane, having curved surfaces, theadvantages of which were first demonstrated by Lilienthal.
AEROCYST
One of the air cells of algals.
AERODONETICS
The science of gliding and soaring flight.
AERODYNAMIC
Pertaining to the force of air in motion.
AERODYNAMICS
The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodiesunder the action of force, and of their mechanical effects.
AEROFOIL
A plane or arched surface for sustaining bodies by its movementthrough the air; a spread wing, as of a bird.
AEROGNOSY
The science which treats of the properties of the air, and ofthe part it plays in nature. Craig.
AEROGRAPHER
One versed in aรซography: an aรซrologist.
AEROGRAPHY
A description of the air or atmosphere; aรซrology.
AEROGUN
A cannon capable of being trained at very high angles for useagainst aircraft.
AEROHYDRODYNAMIC
Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aรซrohydrodynamicwheel.
AEROLITE
A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth fromdistant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.
AEROLITH
Same as A.
AEROLITHOLOGY
The science of aรซrolites.
AEROLITIC
Of or pertaining to aรซrolites; meteoric; as, aรซrolitic iron.Booth.
AEROLOGIST
One versed in aรซrology.
AEROLOGY
That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere.
AEROMANCY
Divination from the state of the air or from atmosphericsubstances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.
AEROMECHANIC
A mechanic or mechanician expert in the art and practice ofaรซronautics.
AEROMECHANICS
The science of equilibrium and motion of air or an aรซriformfluid, including aรซrodynamics and aรซrostatics.
AEROMETER
An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air andgases.
AEROMETRIC
Of or pertaining to aรซrometry; as, aรซrometric investigations.
AEROMETRY
The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of itspressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics.
AERONAT
A dirigible balloon.
AERONAUT
An aรซrial navigator; a balloonist.
AERONAUTICS
The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as bymeans of a balloon; aรซrial navigation; ballooning.
AERONEF
A power-driven, heavier-than-air flying machine.
AEROPHYTE
A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving itsnourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte.
AEROPLANE
A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying,which floats in the air only when propelled through it.
AEROPLANIST
One who flies in an aรซroplane.
AEROSCOPE
An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria,etc., suspended in the air.
AEROSCOPY
The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere.
AEROSE
Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. [R.]
AEROSIDERITE
A mass of meteoric iron.
AEROSPHERE
The atmosphere. [R.]
AEROSTATICS
The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids,or that of bodies sustained in them. Hence it includes aรซronautics.
AEROTAXIS
The positive or negative stimulus exerted by oxygen on aรซrobicand anaรซrobic bacteria. -- A`รซr*o*tac"tic (#), a.
AEROTHERAPENTICS
Treatment of disease by the use of air or other gases.
AEROYACHT
A form of hydro-aรซroplane; a flying boat.
AERUGINOUS
Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper.
AERUGO
The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris.
AERY
An aerie.
AESCULAPIAN
Pertaining to รsculapius or to the healing art; medical;medicinal.
AESCULAPIUS
The god of medicine. Hence, a physician.
AESCULIN
Same as Esculin.
AESIR
In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder,Frigg, and the others. Their home was called Asgard.
AESTHESIA
Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite ofanรฆsthesia.
AESTHESIS
Sensuous perception. [R.] Ruskin.
AESTHESODIC
Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.
AESTHETE
One who makes much or overmuch of รฆsthetics. [Recent]
AESTHETICAN
One versed in รฆsthetics.
AESTHETICISM
The doctrine of รฆsthetics; รฆsthetic principles; devotion to thebeautiful in nature and art. Lowell.
AESTHO-PHYSIOLOGY
The science of sensation in relation to nervous action. H.Spenser.
AESTIVAL
Of or belonging to the summer; as, รฆstival diseases. [Speltalso estival.]
AESTIVATE
To pass the summer in a state of torpor. [Spelt also estivate.]
AESTIVATION
The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness ofsummer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.
AESTUARY
See Estuary.
AESTUOUS
Glowing; agitated, as with heat.
AETHEOGAMOUS
Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous.
AETHER
See Ether.
AETHIOPS MINERAL
Same as Ethiops mineral. [Obs.]
AETHOGEN
A compound of nitrogen and boro
AETHRIOSCOPE
An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer.It is used for measuring changes of temperature produced by differentconditions of the sky, as when clear or clouded.
AETIOLOGICAL
Pertaining to รฆtiology; assigning a cause.-- ร`ti*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
AETITES
See Eaglestone.
AFAR
At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used withfrom preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I sawhim afar off.The steep where Fame's proud temple shines afar. Beattie.
AFEARD
Afraid. [Obs.]Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises. Shak.
AFER
The southwest wind. Milton.
AFFABILITY
The quality of being affable; readiness to converse;courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisantbehavior.Affability is of a wonderful efficacy or power in procuring love.Elyot
AFFABLENESS
Affability.
AFFABLY
In an affable manner; courteously.
AFFABROUS
Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made. [R.]Bailey.
AFFAIR
An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to becalled a battle.
AFFAMISH
To afflict with, or perish from, hunger. [Obs.] Spenser.
AFFAMISHMENT
Starvation. Bp. Hall.
AFFATUATE
To infatuate. [Obs.] Milton.
AFFEAR
To frighten. [Obs.] Spenser.
AFFECT
Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition. [Obs.]Shak.
AFFECTATIONIST
One who exhibits affectation. [R.] Fitzed. Hall.
AFFECTED
Made up of terms involving different powers of the unknownquantity; adfected; as, an affected equation.
AFFECTEDNESS
Affectation.
AFFECTER
One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after."Affecters of wit." Abp. Secker.
AFFECTIBILITY
The quality or state of being affectible. [R.]
AFFECTIBLE
That may be affected. [R.]Lay aside the absolute, and, by union with the creaturely, becomeaffectible. Coleridge.
AFFECTINGLY
In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions.
AFFECTION
Disease; morbid symptom; malady; as, a pulmonary affection.Dunglison.
AFFECTIONAL
Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses;an affectional nature.
AFFECTIONATED
Disposed; inclined. [Obs.]Affectionated to the people. Holinshed.
AFFECTIONATELY
With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.
AFFECTIONATENESS
The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection.
AFFECTIVELY
In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.
AFFECTUOUS
Full of passion or emotion; earnest. [Obs.] --Af*fec"tu*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan.
AFFEER
To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, toa certain and reasonable sum.Amercements . . . were affeered by the judges. Blackstone.
AFFEERMENT
The act of affeering. Blackstone.
AFFERENT
Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed toefferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which conveysensations from the external organs to the brain.
AFFETTUOSO
With feeling.
AFFIANCER
One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons.
AFFIANT
One who makes an affidavit. [U. S.] Burrill.
AFFICHE
A written or printed notice to be posted, as on a wall; aposter; a placard.
AFFIDAVIT
A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signedand made upon oath before an authorized magistrate. Bouvier. Burrill.
AFFILE
To polish. [Obs.]
AFFILIABLE
Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with inorigin.
AFFILIATE
To connect or associate one's self; -- followed by with; as,they affiliate with no party.
AFFILIATION
The establishment or ascertaining of parentage; the assignmentof a child, as a bastard, to its father; filiation.
AFFINAL
Related by marriage; from the same source.
AFFINE
To refine. [Obs.] Holland.
AFFINED
Joined in affinity or by any tie. [Obs.] "All affined and kin."Shak.
AFFINITATIVE
Of the nature of affinity.-- Af*fin"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.
AFFINITIVE
Closely connected, as by affinity.
AFFINITY
That attraction which takes place, at an insensible distance,between the heterogeneous particles of bodies, and unites them toform chemical compounds; chemism; chemical or elective affinity orattraction.
AFFIRM
to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, broughtbefore an appelate court for review.
AFFIRMABLE
Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followedby of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man.
AFFIRMANT
One who affirms of taking an oath.
AFFIRMATION
A solemn declaration made under the penalties of perjury, bypersons who conscientiously decline taking an oath, which declarationis in law equivalent to an oath. Bouvier.
AFFIRMATIVE
Expressing the agreement of the two terms of a proposition.
AFFIRMATIVELY
In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of aquestion; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively.
AFFIRMATORY
Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative. Massey.
AFFIRMER
One who affirms.
AFFIX
That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more lettersor syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix.
AFFIXION
Affixture. [Obs.] T. Adams.
AFFIXTURE
The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment.
AFFLATION
A blowing or breathing on; inspiration.
AFFLICT
Afflicted. [Obs.] Becon.
AFFLICTEDNESS
The state of being afflicted; affliction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
AFFLICTER
One who afflicts.
AFFLICTING
Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflictingevent.-- Af*flict"ing*ly, adv.
AFFLICTIONLESS
Free from affliction.
AFFLICTIVE
Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief;distressing. "Jove's afflictive hand." Pope.Spreads slow disease, and darts afflictive pain. Prior.
AFFLICTIVELY
In an afflictive manner.
AFFLUENCY
Affluence. [Obs.] Addison.
AFFLUENT
A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; atributary stream.
AFFLUENTLY
Abundantly; copiously.
AFFLUENTNESS
Great plenty. [R.]
AFFLUX
A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of bloodto the head.
AFFLUXION
The act of flowing towards; afflux. Sir T. Browne.
AFFODILL
Asphodel. [Obs.]
AFFORCE
To reรซnforce; to strengthen. Hallam.
AFFORCIAMENT
See Afforcement. [Obs.]
AFFORDABLE
That may be afforded.
AFFORDMENT
Anything given as a help; bestowal. [Obs.]
AFFOREST
To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country.
AFFORESTATION
The act of converting into forest or woodland. Blackstone.
AFFORMATIVE
An affix.
AFFRANCHISE
To make free; to enfranchise. Johnson.
AFFRANCHISEMENT
The act of making free; enfranchisement. [R.]
AFFRAP
To strike, or strike down. [Obs.] Spenser.
AFFRAY
The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to theterror of others. Blackstone.
AFFRAYER
One engaged in an affray.
AFFRAYMENT
Affray. [Obs.] Spenser.
AFFREIGHT
To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight.
AFFREIGHTER
One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods.
AFFREIGHTMENT
The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, orsome part of it, to convey cargo.
AFFRET
A furious onset or attack. [Obs.] Spenser.
AFFRICATE
A combination of a stop, or explosive, with an immediatelyfollowing fricative or spirant of corresponding organic position, aspf in german Pfeffer, pepper, z (= ts) in German Zeit, time.
AFFRICTION
The act of rubbing against. [Obs.]
AFFRIENDED
Made friends; reconciled. [Obs.] "Deadly foes . . .affriended." Spenser.
AFFRIGHT
To impress with sudden fear; to frighten; to alarm.Dreams affright our souls. Shak.A drear and dying sound Affrights the flamens at their servicequaint. Milton.
AFFRIGHTEDLY
With fright. Drayton.
AFFRIGHTEN
To frighten. [Archaic] "Fit tales . . . to affrighten babes."Southey.
AFFRIGHTER
One who frightens. [Archaic]
AFFRIGHTFUL
Terrifying; frightful.-- Af*fright"ful*ly, adv. [Archaic]Bugbears or affrightful apparitions. Cudworth.
AFFRIGHTMENT
Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm.[Archaic]Passionate words or blows . . . fill the child's mind with terror andaffrightment. Locke.
AFFRONTE
Face to face, or front to front; facing.
AFFRONTEDLY
Shamelessly. [Obs.] Bacon.
AFFRONTEE
One who receives an affront. Lytton.
AFFRONTER
One who affronts, or insults to the face.
AFFRONTINGLY
In an affronting manner.
AFFRONTIVE
Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive.How affrontive it is to despise mercy. South.
AFFRONTIVENESS
The quality that gives an affront or offense. [R.] Bailey.
AFFUSE
To pour out or upon. [R.]I first affused water upon the compressed beans. Boyle.
AFFUSION
The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as waterupon a child in baptism. Specifically: (Med)
AFFY
To trust or confide. [Obs.] Shak.
AFGHAN
Of or pertaining to Afghanistan.
AFIRE
On fire.
AFLAME
Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze. G. Eliot.
AFLAT
Level with the ground; flat. [Obs.] Bacon.
AFLAUNT
In a flaunting state or position. Copley.
AFLICKER
In a flickering state.
AFLOW
Flowing.Their founts aflow with tears. R. Browning.
AFLUSH
In a flushed or blushing state.
AFLUTTER
In a flutter; agitated.
AFOAM
In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.
AFORE
In the fore part of a vessel.
AFORECITED
Named or quoted before.
AFOREGOING
Going before; foregoing.
AFOREHAND
Beforehand; in anticipation. [Archaic or Dial.]She is come aforehand to anoint my body. Mark xiv. 8.
AFOREMENTIONED
Previously mentioned; before-mentioned. Addison.
AFORENAMED
Named before. Peacham.
AFORESAID
Said before, or in a preceding part; already described oridentified.
AFORETHOUGHT
Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as,malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder. Bouvier.
AFORETIME
In time past; formerly. "He prayed . . . as he did aforetime."Dan. vi. 10.
AFOUL
In collision; entangled. Totten. To run afoul of, to runagainst or come into collision with, especially so as to becomeentangled or to cause injury.
AFRAID
Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.[Afraid comes after the noun it limits.] "Back they recoiled,afraid." Milton.
AFREET
Same as Afrit.
AFRESH
Anew; again; once more; newly.They crucify . . . the Son of God afresh. Heb. vi. 6.
AFRIC
African.-- n.
AFRICAN
Of or pertaining to Africa. African hemp, a fiber prerared fromthe leaves of the Sanseviera Guineensis, a plant found in Africa andIndia.-- African marigold, a tropical American plant (Tagetes erecta).-- African oak or African teak, a timber furnished by OldfieldiaAfricana, used in ship building. African violet African-American, aUnited States citizen of African descent.
AFRICANDER
One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a"colored" mother. Also, and now commonly in Southern Africa, a nativeborn of European settlers.
AFRICANISM
A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa orAfricans. "The knotty Africanisms . . . of the fathers." Milton.
AFRICANIZE
To place under the domination of Africans or negroes. [Amer.]Bartlett.
AFRONT
In front; face to face.-- prep. In front of. Shak.
AFT
Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.
AFTER
To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in therear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway.
AFTER DAMP
An irrespirable gas, remaining after an explosion of fire dampin mines; choke damp. See Carbonic acid.
AFTER-DINNER
The time just after dinner. "An after-dinner's sleep." Shak.[Obs.] -- a.
AFTER-EATAGE
Aftergrass.
AFTER-GLOW
A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset.
AFTER-IMAGE
The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina ofthe eye after the cause has been removed; also extended toimpressions left of tones, smells, etc.
AFTER-MENTIONED
Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in awriting).
AFTER-NOTE
One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of themeasure, taking their time from the preceding note.
AFTER-SAILS
The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between themainmast and mizzenmast. Totten.
AFTER-WIT
Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use. "After-wit comes too late when the mischief is done." L'Estrange.
AFTER-WITTED
Characterized by afterwit; slow-witted. Tyndale.
AFTERBIRTH
The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected,and which come away after delivery.
AFTERCAST
A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything donetoo late. Gower.
AFTERCLAP
An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeablehappening after an affair is supposed to be at an end. Spenser.
AFTERCROP
A second crop or harvest in the same year. Mortimer.
AFTEREYE
To look after. [Poetic] Shak.
AFTERGAME
A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient. Wotton.Aftergame at Irish, an ancient game very nearly resemblingbackgammon. Beau. & Fl.
AFTERGRASS
The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown;aftermath.
AFTERGROWTH
A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development. J. S.Mill.
AFTERGUARD
The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of theship, to attend the after-sails. Totten.
AFTERINGS
The last milk drawn in milking; strokings. [Obs.] Grose.
AFTERMATH
A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop ofhay in the same season; rowen. Holland.
AFTERMOST
Nearest the stern; most aft.
AFTERNOON
The part of the day which follows noon, between noon andevening.
AFTERPAINS
The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling theafterbirth.
AFTERPIECE
The heel of a rudder.
AFTERSENSATION
A sensation or sense impression following the removal of astimulus producing a primary sensation, and reproducing the primarysensation in positive, negative, or complementary form. Theaftersensation may be continuous with the primary sensation or followit after an interval.
AFTERSHAFT
The hypoptilum.
AFTERTASTE
A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking.
AFTERTHOUGHT
Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought orexpedient.
AFTERWISE
Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.
AFTMOST
Nearest the stern.
AFTWARD
Toward the stern.
AGAIN
Against; also, towards (in order to meet). [Obs.]Albeit that it is again his kind. Chaucer.
AGAINBUY
To redeem. [Obs.] Wyclif.
AGAINSAY
To gainsay. [Obs.] Wyclif.
AGAINSTAND
To withstand. [Obs.]
AGAINWARD
Back again. [Obs.]
AGAL-AGAL
Same as Agar-agar.
AGALACTOUS
Lacking milk to suckle with.
AGALMATOLITE
A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowishcolor, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figurestone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite.
AGAMA
A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetablesubstances; also, one of these lizards.
AGAMI
A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to thecranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breastedtrumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter.
AGAMICALLY
In an agamic manner.
AGAMIST
An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage. Foxe.
AGAMOGENESIS
Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes:asexual reproduction.
AGAMOGENETIC
Reproducing or produced without sexual union.-- Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.All known agamogenetic processes end in a complete return to theprimitive stock. Huxley.
AGAMOUS
Having no visible sexual organs; asexual. In Bot.,cryptogamous.
AGANGLIONIC
Without ganglia.
AGAPE
Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.Dazzles the crowd and sets them all agape. Milton.
AGAR-AGAR
A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies;Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides).
AGARIC
A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which thecommon mushroom is an example.
AGASP
In a state of gasping. Coleridge.
AGAST
See Aghast.
AGASTRIC
Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as thetapeworm.
AGATE
On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate.[Obs.] Cotgrave.
AGATIFEROUS
Containing or producing agates. Craig.
AGATINE
Pertaining to, or like, agate.
AGATIZE
To convert into agate; to make resemble agate. Dana.
AGATY
Of the nature of agate, or containing agate.
AGAVE
A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceรฆ) of which the chiefspecies is the maguey or century plant (A. Americana), wrongly calledAloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, inattaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem,sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice isthe pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strongthread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood hasmany uses.
AGAZED
Gazing with astonishment; amazed. [Obs.]The whole army stood agazed on him. Shak.
AGE
To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grewfat as he aged.They live one hundred and thirty years, and never age for all that.Holland.I am aging; that is, I have a whitish, or rather a light-colored,hair here and there. Landor.
AGEDLY
In the manner of an aged person.
AGEDNESS
The quality of being aged; oldness.Custom without truth is but agedness of error. Milton.
AGELESS
Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of agelessyouth.
AGEN
See Again. [Obs.]
AGEND
See Agendum. [Obs.]
AGENESIC
Characterized by sterility; infecund.
AGENESIS
Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly oforganization.
AGENNESIS
Impotence; sterility.
AGENT
Actingpatient, or sustaining, action. [Archaic] "The bodyagent." Bacon.
AGENTIAL
Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency. Fitzed. Hall.
AGENTSHIP
Agency. Beau. & Fl.
AGERATUM
A genus of plants, one species of which (A. Mexicanum) haslavender-blue flowers in dense clusters.
AGGENERATION
The act of producing in addition. [Obs.] T. Stanley.
AGGER
An earthwork; a mound; a raised work. [Obs.] Hearne.
AGGERATE
To heap up. [Obs.] Foxe.
AGGERATION
A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand. [R.]
AGGEROSE
In heaps; full of heaps.
AGGEST
To heap up. [Obs.]The violence of the waters aggested the earth. Fuller.
AGGLOMERATE
To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass oranything like a mass.Where he builds the agglomerated pile. Cowper.
AGGLOMERATIVE
Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections.Taylor is eminently discursive, accumulative, and (to use one of hisown words) agglomerative. Coleridge.
AGGLUTINANT
Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion.-- n.
AGGLUTINATE
To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscoussubstance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances.
AGGLUTINATION
Combination in which root words are united with little or nochange of form or loss of meaning. See Agglutinative, 2.
AGGLUTINATIVE
Formed or characterized by agglutination, as a language or acompound.In agglutinative languages the union of words may be compared tomechanical compounds, in inflective languages to chemical compounds.R. Morris.Cf. man-kind, heir-loom, war-like, which are agglutinative compounds.The Finnish, Hungarian, Turkish, the Tamul, etc., are agglutinativelanguages. R. Morris.Agglutinative languages preserve the consciousness of their roots.Max Mรผller.
AGGRACE
To favor; to grace. [Obs.] "That knight so much aggraced."Spenser.
AGGRADE
To bring, or tend to bring, to a uniform grade, or slope, byaddition of material; as, streams aggrade their beds by depositingsediment.
AGGRANDIZABLE
Capable of being aggrandized.
AGGRANDIZATION
Aggrandizement. [Obs.] Waterhouse.
AGGRANDIZE
To increase or become great. [Obs.]Follies, continued till old age, do aggrandize. J. Hall.
AGGRANDIZEMENT
The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized orexalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement;as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.
AGGRANDIZER
One who aggrandizes, or makes great.
AGGRATE
To please. [Obs.]Each one sought his lady to aggrate. Spenser.
AGGRAVATINGLY
In an aggravating manner.
AGGRAVATIVE
Tending to aggravate. Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv.-- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.No aggressive movement was made. Macaulay.
AGGREGATELY
Collectively; in mass.
AGGREGATION
The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated;collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; anaggregate.
AGGREGATOR
One who aggregates.
AGGREGE
To make heavy; to aggravate. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AGGRESS
To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin aquarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on.
AGGRESSION
The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury,or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack;assault; as, a war of aggression. "Aggressions of power."  Hallam
AGGRESSIVE
Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression;making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war,person, nation. -- Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv. -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.
AGGRESSOR
The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he whobegins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant.The insolence of the aggressor is usually proportioned to thetameness of the sufferer. Ames.
AGGRIEVANCE
Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance. [Archaic]
AGGRIEVE
To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress orinjure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used inthe passive TO be aggrieved.Aggrieved by oppression and extortion. Macaulay.
AGGROUP
To bring together in a group; to group. Dryden.
AGGROUPMENT
Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.
AGHAST
See Agast, v. t. [Obs.]
AGIBLE
Possible to be done; practicable. [Obs.] "Fit for agiblethings." Sir A. Sherley.
AGILE
Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or readyto move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.Shaking it with agile hand. Cowper.
AGILELY
In an agile manner; nimbly.
AGILENESS
Agility; nimbleness. [R.]
AGIO
The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it isgiven in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount onforeign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio.
AGIOTAGE
Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers ofspeculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds.Vanity and agiotage are to a Parisian the oxygen and hydrogen oflife. Landor.
AGIST
To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- usedoriginally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, andcollecting the money for the same. Blackstone.
AGISTATOR
See Agister.
AGITABLE
Capable of being agitated, or easily moved. [R.]
AGITATEDLY
In an agitated manner.
AGITATIVE
Tending to agitate.
AGITATO
Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner.
AGITATOR
One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time,to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators. Clarendon.
AGLEAM
Gleaming; as, faces agleam. Lowell.
AGLEY
Aside; askew. [Scotch] Burns.
AGLIMMER
In a glimmering state. Hawthorne.
AGLITTER
Clittering; in a glitter.
AGLOSSAL
Without tongue; tongueless.
AGLOW
In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow.
AGLUTITION
Inability to swallow.
AGMINAL
Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train. [R.]
AGNATE
A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively throughmales.
AGNATIC
Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors. "Theagnatic succession." Blackstone.
AGNATION
Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished fromcognation. Bouvier.
AGNITION
Acknowledgment. [Obs.] Grafton.
AGNIZE
To recognize; to acknowledge. [Archaic]I do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity. Shak.
AGNOIOLOGY
The doctrine concerning those things of which we arenecessarily ignorant.
AGNOMINATE
To name. [Obs.]
AGNOSTIC
Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to orinvolving agnosticism.-- Ag*nos"tic*al*ly, adv.
AGNOSTICISM
That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nordenies. Specifically: (Theol.)
AGNUS
Agnus Dei.
AGNUS CASTUS
A species of Vitex (V. agnus castus); the chaste tree. Loudon.And wreaths of agnus castus others bore. Dryden.
AGNUS SCYTHICUS
The Scythian lamb, a kind of woolly-skinned rootstock. SeeBarometz.
AGO
Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.
AGOG
In eager desire; eager; astir.All agog to dash through thick and thin. Cowper.
AGOING
In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing.
AGON
A contest for a prize at the public games.
AGONE
Ago. [Archaic. & Poet.]Three days agone I fell sick. 1 Sam. xxx. 13.
AGONIC
Not forming an angle. Agonic line (Physics), an imaginary lineon the earth's surface passing through those places where themagnetic needle points to the true north; the line of no magneticvariation. There is one such line in the Western hemisphere, andanother in the Eastern hemisphere.
AGONISM
Contention for a prize; a contest. [Obs.] Blount.
AGONIST
One who contends for the prize in public games. [R.]
AGONISTICALLY
In an agonistic manner.
AGONISTICS
The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games.
AGONIZE
To cause to suffer agony; to subject to extreme pain; totorture.He agonized his mother by his behavior. Thackeray.
AGONIZINGLY
With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.
AGONOTHETE
An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece.
AGONOTHETIC
Pertaining to the office of an agonothete.
AGOOD
In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood."  Shak.
AGORA
An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially themarket place, in an ancient Greek city.
AGOUARA
The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in thetropical parts of America.
AGOUTA
A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied tothe moles, found only in Hayti.
AGRACE
See Aggrace. [Obs.]
AGRAMMATIST
A illiterate person. [Obs.] Bailey.
AGRAPHIA
The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by writtensigns. It is one form of aphasia.
AGRAPHIC
Characterized by agraphia.
AGRAPPES
Hooks and eyes for armor, etc. Fairholt.
AGRARIAN
Wild; -- said of plants growing in the fields.
AGRARIANISM
An equal or equitable division of landed property; theprinciples or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land.
AGRARIANIZE
To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles ofagrarianism.
AGREE
To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.
AGREEINGLY
In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably. [Obs.]
AGREEMENT
Concord or correspondence of one word with another in gender,number, case, or person.
AGREER
One who agrees.
AGRESTIC
Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city;rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth. "Agrestic behavior." Gregory.
AGRESTICAL
Agrestic. [Obs.]
AGRICOLATION
Agriculture. [Obs.] Bailey.
AGRICOLIST
A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist. Dodsley.
AGRICULTOR
An agriculturist; a farmer. [R.]
AGRICULTURAL
Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in,tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages,etc.-- Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ly, adv. Agricultural ant (Zoรถl.), a species ofant which gathers and stores seeds of grasses, for food. Theremarkable species (Myrmica barbata) found in Texas clears circularareas and carefully cultivates its favorite grain, known as ant rice.
AGRICULTURALIST
An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.)
AGRICULTURE
The art or science of cultivating the ground, including theharvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock;tillage; husbandry; farming.
AGRICULTURISM
Agriculture. [R.]
AGRICULTURIST
One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman.The farmer is always a practitioner, the agriculturist may be a meretheorist. Crabb.
AGRIEF
In grief; amiss. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AGRIN
In the act of grinning. "His visage all agrin." Tennyson.
AGRIOLOGIST
One versed or engaged in agriology.
AGRIOLOGY
Description or comparative study of the customs of savage oruncivilized tribes.
AGRISE
To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AGROM
A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the EastIndies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.
AGRONOMICS
The science of the distribution and management of land.
AGRONOMIST
One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.
AGRONOMY
The management of land; rural economy; agriculture.
AGROPE
In the act of groping. Mrs. Browning.
AGROSTIS
A genus of grasses, including species called in common languagebent grass. Some of them, as redtop (Agrostis vulgaris), are valuablepasture grasses.
AGROSTOGRAPHY
A description of the grasses.
AGROSTOLOGIST
One skilled in agrostology.
AGROSTOLOGY
That part of botany which treats of the grasses.
AGROTECHNY
That branch of agriculture dealing with the methods ofconversion of agricultural products into manufactured articles;agricultural technology.
AGROUND
On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a shipwhen its bottom lodges on the ground. Totten.
AGROUPMENT
See Aggroupment.
AGRYPNOTIC
Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, asstrong tea or coffee.
AGUE
An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.
AGUILT
To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong. [Obs.]Chaucer.
AGUISE
Dress. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
AGUSH
In a gushing state. Hawthorne.
AGYNOUS
Without female organs; male.
AH
An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint,entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according tothe manner of utterance.
AHA
An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph,mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise.
AHEAP
In a heap; huddled together. Hood.
AHEIGHT
Aloft; on high. [Obs.] "Look up aheight." Shak.
AHEM
An exclamation to call one's attention; hem.
AHEY
Hey; ho.
AHIGH
On high. [Obs.] Shak.
AHOLD
Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold. [Obs.] Shak.
AHORSEBACK
On horseback.Two suspicious fellows ahorseback. Smollet.
AHOY
A term used in hailing; as, "Ship ahoy."
AHRIMAN
The Evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Princeof Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light.
AHU
The Asiatic gazelle.
AHULL
With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied toships in a storm. See Hull, n.
AHUNGERED
Pinched with hunger; very hungry. C. Brontรฉ.
AI
The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America.See Sloth.
AID
To support, either by furnishing strength or means incoรถperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; tohelp; to assist.You speedy helpers . . . Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Shak.
AID-DE-CAMP
An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also toassist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements.
AID-MAJOR
The adjutant of a regiment.
AIDANCE
Aid. [R.]Aidance 'gainst the enemy. Shak.
AIDANT
Helping; helpful; supplying aid. Shak.
AIDER
One who, or that which, aids.
AIDFUL
Helpful. [Archaic.] Bp. Hall.
AIDLESS
Helpless; without aid. Milton.
AIEL
See Ayle. [Obs.]
AIGLET
Same as Aglet.
AIGRE
Sour. [Obs.] Shak.
AIGREMORE
Charcoal prepared for making powder.
AIGULET
See Aglet. Spenser.
AIL
To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental;to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasinessor affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I knownot what ails him.What aileth thee, Hagar Gen. xxi. 17.
AILANTHUS
Same as Ailantus.
AILANTUS
A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies. Thetree imperfectly di
AILERON
A half gable, as at the end of a penthouse or of the aisle of achurch.
AILETTE
A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders ofknights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet. Fairholt.
AILMENT
Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not appliedordinarily to acute diseases. "Little ailments." Landsdowne.
AILUROIDEA
A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, andhyenas.
AIM
To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; todirect, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against anobject; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (atsomething); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice).
AIMER
One who aims, directs, or points.
AIMLESS
Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life.-- Aim"less*ly, adv.-- Aim"less*ness, n.
AINO
One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islandsetc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposedto have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout andshort, with hairy bodies.
AIR
An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity;haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs. Thackeray.
AIR BED
A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed.
AIR BLADDER
An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in thevisceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as thelungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain atubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus.
AIR BRAKE
A railway brake operated by condensed air. Knight.
AIR BRUSH
A kind of atomizer for applying liquid coloring matter in aspray by compressed air.
AIR CELL
A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only.
AIR COCK
A faucet to allow escape of air.
AIR COOLING
In gasoline-engine motor vehicles, the cooling of the cylinderby increasing its radiating surface by means of ribs or radiators,and placing it so that it is exposed to a current of air. Cf. Watercooling. -- Air"-cooled`, a.
AIR DRILL
A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; apneumatic drill. Knight.
AIR ENGINE
An engine driven by heated or by compressed air. Knight.
AIR GAP
An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif.,in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles andthe armature; clearance.
AIR GAS
See under Gas.
AIR GUN
A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air isused to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into areservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and iscontrolled by a valve actuated by the trigger.
AIR HOLE
A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole.
AIR JACKET
A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can befilled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming.
AIR LEVEL
Spirit level. See Level.
AIR LINE
A path through the air made easy for aรซrial navigation bysteady winds.
AIR PIPE
A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe.
AIR PLANT
A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; anaรซrophyte.
AIR POISE
A
AIR PUMP
A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closedspace; also, a pump to condense air of force in into a closed space.
AIR SAC
One of the spaces in different parts. of the bodies of birds,which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of thelungs; an air cell.
AIR SHAFT
A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into amine or a tunnel.
AIR STOVE
A stove for heating a current of air which is directed againstits surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through abuilding.
AIR VESSEL
A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; asthe air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of apump, engine, etc. For the latter, see Air chamber. The air vesselsof insects are called tracheรฆ, of plants spiral vessels.
AIR-BUILT
Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as,an air-built castle.
AIR-DRAWN
Drawn in air; imaginary.This is the air-drawn dagger. Shak.
AIR-SLACKED
Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slackedlime.
AIR-TIGHT
So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tightcylinder.
AIRCRAFT
Any device, as a balloon, aรซroplane, etc., for floating in, orflying through, the air.
AIRILY
In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly.
AIRLESS
Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, orcommunication with the open air.
AIRLIKE
Resembling air.
AIRLING
A thoughtless, gay person. [Obs.] "Slight airlings." B. Jonson.
AIRMAN
A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machinepilot.
AIRMANSHIP
Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aรซrial navigation.
AIROL
A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodideand gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform. [ATrademark]
AIROMETER
A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and openbelow, and has its open end plunged into water.
AIRSICK
Affected with aรซrial sickness. -- Air"sick`ness, n.
AIRWOMAN
A woman who ascends or flies in an aircraft.
AIRY
Having the light and aรซrial tints true to nature. Elmes.
AISLED
Furnished with an aisle or aisles.
AISLESS
Without an aisle.
AIT
An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.The ait where the osiers grew. R. Hodges (1649).Among green aits and meadows. Dickens.
AITCH
The letter h or H.
AITCHBONE
The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding thisbone. [Spelt also edgebone.]
AITIOLOGY
See รtiology.
AJAR
Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar.
AJAVA
See Ajouan.
AJOG
On the jog.
AJUTAGE
A tube through which is water is discharged; an efflux tube;as, the ajutage of a fountain.
AKE
See Ache.
AKENE
Same as Achene.
AKETON
See Acton.
AKIMBO
With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turnedoutward. "With one arm akimbo." Irving.
AKINESIA
Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement. Foster.
AKINESIC
Pertaining to akinesia.
AKNEE
On the knee. [R.] Southey.
AKNOW
Earlier form of Acknow. [Obs.] To be aknow, to acknowledge; toconfess. [Obs.]
AL
All. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AL SEGNO
A direction for the performer to return and recommence from thesign
AL-
All; wholly; completely; as, almighty,almost. (b) Etym: [L.ad.]
AL-PHITOMANCY
Divination by means of barley meal. Knowles.
ALA
A winglike organ, or part.
ALABAMA PERIOD
A period in the American eocene, the lowest in the tertiary ageexcept the lignitic.
ALABASTRIAN
Alabastrine.
ALABASTRINE
Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs.
ALABASTRUM
A flower bud. Gray.
ALACK
An exclamation expressive of sorrow. [Archaic. or Poet.] Shak.
ALACKADAY
An exclamation expressing sorrow.
ALACRIFY
To rouse to action; to inspirit.
ALACRIOUS
Brisk; joyously active; lively.'T were well if we were a little more alacrious. Hammond.
ALACRIOUSLY
With alacrity; briskly.
ALACRIOUSNESS
Alacrity. [Obs.] Hammond.
ALACRITY
A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyousactivity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced withalacrity to meet the enemy.I have not that alacrity of spirit, Nor cheer of mind that I was wontto have. Shak.
ALADINIST
One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans.
ALALIA
Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysisof the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis,aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech.
ALAMIRE
The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.
ALAMODALITY
The quality of being ร  la mode; conformity to the mode orfashion; fashionableness. [R.] Southey.
ALAMODE
According to the fashion or prevailing mode. "Alamode beefshops." Macaulay.
ALAMORT
To the death; mortally.
ALAN
A wolfhound. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ALAND
On land; to the land; ashore. "Cast aland." Sir P. Sidney.
ALANINE
A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehydeammonia.
ALANTIN
See Inulin.
ALAR
Axillary; in the fork or axil. Gray.
ALARMABLE
Easily alarmed or disturbed.
ALARMED
Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger;agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.The white pavilions rose and fell On the alarmed air. Longfellow.
ALARMEDLY
In an alarmed manner.
ALARMING
Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehensionof danger; as, an alarming crisis or report.-- A*larm"ing*ly, adv.
ALARMIST
One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needlessalarms. Macaulay.
ALARUM
See Alarm. [Now Poetic]
ALARY
Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.The alary system of insects. Wollaston.
ALAS
An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension ofevil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas theday, like alack a day, or alas the white.
ALATE
Lately; of late. [Archaic]There hath been alate such tales spread abroad. Latimer.
ALATION
The state of being winged.
ALAUNT
See Alan. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ALB
A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an envelopingthe person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holyorders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least byclerics, in daily life.
ALB SUNDAY
The first Sunday after Easter Sunday, properly Albless Sunday,because in the early church those who had been baptized on Easter evelaid aside on the following Saturday their white albs which had beenput on after baptism.
ALBACORE
See Albicore.
ALBAN
A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-percha by the action of alcohol or ether.
ALBANIAN
Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.-- n.
ALBATA
A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks,teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver,under German.
ALBATROSS
A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there areseveral species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long-continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from theland. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.
ALBEDO
Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the lightreflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light fallingupon that surface.
ALBEIT
Even though; although; notwithstanding. Chaucer.Albeit so masked, Madam, I love the truth. Tennyson.
ALBERT WARE
A soft ornamental terra-cotta pottery, sold in the biscuitstate for decorating.
ALBERTITE
A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the countyof A.
ALBERTYPE
A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced bymeans of a photographic negative.
ALBESCENCE
The act of becoming white; whitishness.
ALBESCENT
Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.
ALBICANT
Growing or becoming white.
ALBICATION
The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, orstreaks.
ALBICORE
A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family,esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in theMediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horsemackerel; the tunny. [Written also albacore.]
ALBIFICATION
The act or process of making white. [Obs.]
ALBIGENSIAN
Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.
ALBINESS
A female albino. Holmes.
ALBINISM
The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism;leucopathy.
ALBINISTIC
Affected with albinism.
ALBINO
A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by somedefect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin,hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has askin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deepred pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the loweranimals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitishcondition from the absence of chlorophyll. Amer. Cyc.
ALBINOISM
The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.
ALBINOTIC
Affected with albinism.
ALBION
An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.In that nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.
ALBITE
A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization,and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a commonconstituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar.
ALBOLITH
A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consistingchiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.
ALBORAK
The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said tohave been carried up to heaven; a white mule.
ALBUGINEOUS
Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of anegg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., whichare perfectly white.
ALBUGO
Same as Leucoma.
ALBUM
A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list ofnames, etc.
ALBUM GRAECUM
Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air.It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine.
ALBUMEN
Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seedin many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the flourypart in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds,the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.
ALBUMENIZE
To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with analbuminous solution; as, to albuminize paper.
ALBUMIN
A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief andcharacteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum ofblood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid,also in many plants. It is soluble in water is coagulated by heat adby certain chemical reagents. Acid albumin, a modification of albuminproduced by the action of dilute acids. It is not coagulated by heat.-- Alkali albumin, albumin as modified by the action of alkalinesubstances; -- called also albuminate.
ALBUMINATE
A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin,and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed bythe union of albumin with another substance.
ALBUMINIFEROUS
Supplying albumen.
ALBUMINIMETER
An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in aliquid.
ALBUMININ
The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds'eggs.
ALBUMINIPAROUS
Producing albumin.
ALBUMINOID
Resembling albumin.-- n.
ALBUMINOIDAL
Of the nature of an albuminoid.
ALBUMINOSE
A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action ofnatural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.
ALBUMINOSIS
A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminouselements in the blood.
ALBUMINURIA
A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.
ALBUMOSE
A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by diluteacids or by an acid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, asantialbumose, hemialbumose.
ALBURN
The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarlysilvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.
ALBURNOUS
Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnoussubstances.
ALBURNUM
The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark andthe hard wood or duramen; sapwood.
ALBYN
Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland. T. Cambell.
ALCADE
Same as Alcaid.
ALCAHEST
Same as Alkahest.
ALCAIC
Pertaining to Alcรฆus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b.c.-- n. A kind of verse, so called from Alcรฆus. One variety consistsof five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, andtwo dactyls.
ALCALDE
A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc.Prescott.
ALCALDIA
The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building orchamber in which he conducts the business of his office.
ALCALIMETER
See Alkalimeter.
ALCANNA
An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna isobtained.
ALCARRAZA
A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids byevaporation from the exterior surface.
ALCAYDE
Same as Alcaid.
ALCAZAR
A fortress; also, a royal palace. Prescott.
ALCEDO
A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher(Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.
ALCHEMICALLY
In the manner of alchemy.
ALCHEMIST
One who practices alchemy.You are alchemist; make gold. Shak.
ALCHEMISTRY
Alchemy. [Obs.]
ALCHEMIZE
To change by alchemy; to transmute. Lovelace.
ALCHEMY
See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.
ALCO
A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.
ALCOHOL
A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol inconstitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certainorganic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol(C2H5OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amylforms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc.
ALCOHOLATE
A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which thelatter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.Graham.
ALCOHOLATURE
An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants. New Eng.Dict.
ALCOHOLIC
Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities;derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as,alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.
ALCOHOLISM
A diseased condition of the system, brought about by thecontinued use of alcoholic liquors.
ALCOHOLIZE
An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with ascale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol,either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with aspecial scale.
ALCOHOLOMETRY
The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of purealcohol which spirituous liquors contain.
ALCORAN
The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).[Spelt also Alcoran.]
ALCORANIC
Of or pertaining to the Koran.
ALCORANIST
One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting alltraditions.
ALCORNOQUE
The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides ofBrazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia,used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or ofQuercus ilex, the cork tree.
ALCOVE
A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into alarger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recessin a library.
ALCYON
See Halcyon.
ALCYONACEA
A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is thetype. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.
ALCYONARIA
One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea,Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea.
ALCYONES
The kingfishers.
ALCYONIC
Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
ALCYONIUM
A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resemblingflowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used forcertain species of sponges.
ALCYONOID
Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.-- n.
ALDAY
Continually. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ALDEBARAN
A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye ofTaurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called theHyades.Now when Aldebaran was mounted high Above the shiny Cassiopeia'schair. Spenser.
ALDEHYDE
A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained fromalcohol by certain of oxidation.
ALDEHYDIC
Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid. Miller.
ALDER
A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to thegenus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers andtanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs orsmall trees. Black alder. (a) A European shrub (Rhamnus frangula);Alder buckthorn. (b) An American species of holly (Ilexverticillata), bearing red berries.
ALDER-LIEFEST
Most beloved. [Obs.] Shak.
ALDERMANCY
The office of an alderman.
ALDERMANIC
Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristicof an alderman.
ALDERMANLIKE
Like or suited to an alderman.
ALDERMANLY
Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.
ALDERMANSHIP
The condition, position, or office of an alderman. Fabyan.
ALDERN
Made of alder.
ALDERNEY
One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the ChannelIslands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often calledJersey cattle. See Jersey, 3.
ALDINE
An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) whichproceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, ofVenice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the signof the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied tocertain elegant editions of English works.
ALDOL
A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of twomolecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, anyof various derivatives of this. The same reaction has been applied,under the name of aldol condensation, to the production of manycompounds.
ALE SILVER
A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers ofale within the city.
ALE-KNIGHT
A pot companion. [Obs.]
ALEAK
In a leaking condition.
ALEATORY
Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatorycontract. Bouvier.
ALEBENCH
A bench in or before an alehouse. Bunyan.
ALEBERRY
A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, andsops of bread.Their aleberries, caudles, possets. Beau. & Fl.
ALECITHAL
Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which havelittle or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm. Balfour.
ALECONNER
Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale andbeer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London toinspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is asinecure. [Also called aletaster.] [Eng.]
ALECOST
The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoringale.
ALECTORIDES
A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.
ALECTOROMACHY
Cockfighting.
ALECTOROMANCY
See Alectryomancy.
ALECTRYOMACHY
Cockfighting.
ALECTRYOMANCY
Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on theletters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the orderin which the grains were eaten. Amer. Cyc.
ALEE
On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; theopposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed closeto the lee side. Hard alee, or Luff alee, an order to put the helm tothe lee side.
ALEGAR
Sour ale; vinegar made of ale. Cecil.
ALEGER
Gay; cheerful; sprightly. [Obs.] Bacon.
ALEGGE
To allay or alleviate; to lighten. [Obs.]That shall alegge this bitter blast. Spenser.
ALEHOOF
Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).
ALEHOUSE
A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.Macaulay.
ALEM
The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire.
ALEMANNIC
Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike Germantribes.
ALEMBIC
An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made ofglass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and wormstill.Used also metaphorically. The alembic of a great poet's imagination.Brimley.
ALEMBROTH
The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed ofthe chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as astimulant. Brande & C.
ALENCON LACE
See under Lace.
ALENGTH
At full length; lenghtwise. Chaucer.
ALEPIDOTE
Not having scales.-- n.
ALEPOLE
A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse. [Obs.]
ALEPPO GRASS
One of the cultivated forms of Andropogon Halepensis (syn.Sorghum Halepense). See Andropogon, below.
ALERT
An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack;also, a bugle sound to give warning. "We have had an alert." Farrow.On the alert, on the lookout or watch against attack or danger; readyto act.
ALERTLY
In an alert manner; nimbly.
ALERTNESS
The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness;nimbleness; activity.
ALESTAKE
A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse,as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, abunch of leaves, or a "bush." [Obs.] Chaucer.
ALETASTER
See Aleconner. [Eng.]
ALETHIOLOGY
The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.Sir W. Hamilton.
ALETHOSCOPE
An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as topresent them in their natural proportions and relations.
ALEUROMANCY
Divination by means of flour. Encyc. Brit.
ALEUROMETER
An instrument for determining the expansive properties, orquality, of gluten in flour. Knight.
ALEURONAT
Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flourin preparing bread for diabetic persons.
ALEURONE
An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ("proteingranules") in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be amodification of protoplasm.
ALEURONIC
Having the nature of aleurone. D. C. Eaton.
ALEVIN
Young fish; fry.
ALEW
Halloo. [Obs.] Spenser.
ALEWIFE
A woman who keeps an alehouse. Gay.
ALEXANDRINE
Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian. Bancroft.
ALEXIA
Alexipharmic. [Obs.]
ALEXIPHARMIC
An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.
ALEXIPYRETIC
Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.-- n.
ALEXITERIC
A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, andthe effects of poison in general. Brande & C.
ALFALFA
The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California,Texas, etc.
ALFENIDE
An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.
ALFERES
An ensign; a standard bearer. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.
ALFET
A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plungedhis forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.
ALFILARIA
The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.
ALFIONE
An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).
ALFORJA
A saddlebag. [Sp. Amer.]
ALFRESCO
In the open-air. Smollett.
ALGA
A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plantswhich includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse,sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervรฆ, etc.
ALGAL
Pertaining to, or like, algรฆ.
ALGAROBA
A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which isa compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerlyused in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic.
ALGAROVILLA
The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a SouthAmerican tree (Inga Marthรฆ). It is valuable for tanning leather, andas a dye.
ALGAZEL
The true gazelle.
ALGEBRA
That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations andproperties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It isapplicable to those relations that are true of every kind ofmagnitude.
ALGEBRAICALLY
By algebraic process.
ALGEBRAIST
One versed in algebra.
ALGEBRAIZE
To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.
ALGERIAN
Of or pertaining to Algeria.-- n.
ALGERINE
Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.
ALGID
Cold; chilly. Bailey. Algid cholera (Med.), Asiatic cholera.
ALGIDITY
Chilliness; coldness; especially (Med.),
ALGIDNESS
Algidity. [Obs.]
ALGIFIC
Producing cold.
ALGIN
A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained fromcertain algรฆ.
ALGOID
Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.
ALGOL
A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus,remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.
ALGOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.
ALGOLOGIST
One learned about algรฆ; a student of algology.
ALGOLOGY
The study or science of algรฆ or seaweeds.
ALGOMETER
An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure.It has a piston rod with a blunted tip which is pressed against theskin. -- Al*gom"e*try (#), n. -- Al`go*met"ric (#), *met"ric*al (#),a. --Al`go*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
ALGONKIAN
The Algonkian period or era, or system or group of systems.
ALGONQUIAN
Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of thelinguistic families of North American Indians, their territoryformerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115thmeridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United Stateseast of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with theexception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes.There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of whichthe strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees,Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet. -- n.
ALGOR
Cold; chilliness.
ALGOUS
Of or pertaining to the algรฆ, or seaweeds; abounding with, orlike, seaweed.
ALGUAZIL
An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; aconstable. Prescott.
ALGUM
Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8.
ALHAMBRA
The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.
ALHENNA
See Henna.
ALIBI
The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for acrime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place whenthe alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove analibi.
ALIBILITY
Quality of being alible.
ALIBLE
Nutritive; nourishing.
ALICANT
A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have beenmade near Alicant, in Spain. J. Fletcher.
ALIDADE
The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant orastrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degreescut off on the arc of the instrument Whewell.
ALIEN
To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property orownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale.The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . themarriage. Clarendon.
ALIENABILITY
Capability of being alienated. "The alienability of thedomain." Burke.
ALIENABLE
Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another;as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.
ALIENATE
Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.O alienate from God. Milton.
ALIENATION
A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property toanother.
ALIENATOR
One who alienates.
ALIENE
To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, toaliene an estate.
ALIENEE
One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed toalienor.It the alienee enters and keeps possession. Blackstone.
ALIENIST
One who treats diseases of the mind. Ed. Rev.
ALIENOR
One who alienates or transfers property to another. Blackstone.
ALIFE
On my life; dearly. [Obs.] "I love that sport alife." Beau. &Fl.
ALIFEROUS
Having wings, winged; aligerous. [R.]
ALIFORM
Wing-shaped; winglike.
ALIGEROUS
Having wings; winged. [R.]
ALIGHT
Lighted; lighted up; in a flame. "The lamps were alight."Dickens.
ALIGN
To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bringinto line; to aline.
ALIGNMENT
The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction fromthe grades or profile.
ALIKE
Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.[Now used only predicatively.]The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Ps. cxxxix. 12.
ALIKE-MINDED
Like-minded. [Obs.]
ALIMENTAL
Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishingthe materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.
ALIMENTALLY
So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality. SirT. Browne.
ALIMENTARINESS
The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality. [R.]
ALIMENTARY
Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition;nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances. Alimentary canal,the entire channel, extending from the mouth to the anus, by whichaliments are conveyed through the body, and the useless partsejected.
ALIMENTIVENESS
The instinct or faculty of appetite for food. [Chiefly inPhrenol.]
ALIMONIOUS
Affording food; nourishing. [R.] "Alimonious humors." Harvey.
ALIMONY
An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate orincome for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation fromhim, or during a suit for the same. Wharton. Burrill.
ALINASAL
Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.
ALINE
To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.Evelyn.
ALINEATION
See Allineation.
ALINEMENT
Same as Alignment.
ALINER
One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them intoline. Evelyn.
ALIOTH
A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl inthe Dipper.
ALIPED
Wing-footed, as the bat.-- n.
ALIPHATIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied tocompounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compoundsthus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of theparaffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as theethylene and acetylene series.
ALIQUANT
An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does notdivide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of16. Opposed to aliquot.
ALIQUOT
An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which willdivide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15.Opposed to aliquant.
ALISEPTAL
Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.
ALISH
Like ale; as, an alish taste.
ALISPHENOID
The alisphenoid bone.
ALITRUNK
The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings areattached; the thorax. Kirby.
ALITURGICAL
Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.Shipley.
ALIUNDE
From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde;evidence aliunde.
ALIZARI
The madder of the Levant. Brande & C.
ALIZARIN
A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and nowproduced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds.
ALKAHEST
The fabled "universal solvent" of the alchemists; a menstruumcapable of dissolving all bodies.-- Al`ka*hes"tic, a.
ALKALAMIDE
One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia inwhich a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and anotherpart by acid, atoms or radicals.
ALKALESCENT
Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.
ALKALI
One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammoma,and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility inalcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap,neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown severalvegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue. Fixedalkalies, potash and soda.-- Vegetable alkalies. Same as Alkaloids.-- Volatile alkali, ammonia, so called in distinction from the fixedalkalies.
ALKALI FLAT
A sterile plain, containing an excess of alkali, at the bottomof an undrained basin in an arid region; a playa.
ALKALI SOIL
Any one of various soils found in arid and semiarid regions,containing an unusual amount of soluble mineral salts whicheffloresce in the form of a powder or crust (usually white) in dryweather following rains or irrigation. The basis of these salts ismainly soda with a smaller amount of potash, and usually a littlelime and  magnesia. Two main classes of alkali are commonlydistinguished: black alkali, which may be any alkaline carbonate, butwhich practically consists of sodium carbonate (sal soda), which ishighly corrosive and destructive to vegetation; and white alkali,characterized by the presence of sodium sulphate (Glauber's salt),which is less injurious to vegetation. Black alkali is so calledbecause water containing it dissolves humus, forming a dark-coloredsolution which, when it collects in puddles and evaporates, producescharacteristic black spots.
ALKALI WASTE
Waste material from the manufacture of alkali; specif., sodawaste.
ALKALIFIABLE
Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.
ALKALIFY
To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.
ALKALIMETER
An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or thequantity of alkali in a mixture.
ALKALIMETRY
The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, orthe quantity present in alkaline mixtures.
ALKALINE
Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having theproperties of an alkali. Alkaline earths, certain substances, aslime, baryta, strontia, and magnesia, possessing some of thequalities of alkalies.-- Alkaline metals, potassium, sodium, cรฆsium, lithium, rubidium.-- Alkaline reaction, a reaction indicating alkalinity, as by theaction on limits, turmeric, etc.
ALKALINITY
The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.Thomson.
ALKALIOUS
Alkaline. [Obs.]
ALKALIZATE
Alkaline. [Obs.] Boyle.
ALKALIZATION
The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; aconferring of alkaline qualities.
ALKALIZE
To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkalito.
ALKALOID
An organic base, especially one of a class of substancesoccurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies ofanimals.
ALKANET
A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria,which gives a fine deep red color.
ALKARGEN
Same as Cacodylic acid.
ALKARSIN
A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor,and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called alsoCadel's fuming liquid.
ALKAZAR
See Alcazar.
ALKEKENGI
An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalisalkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size ofa cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also calledwinter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato. D. C. Eaton.
ALKERMES
A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving itsname from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.
ALKORAN
The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran.
ALKORANIC
Same as Alcoranic.
ALKORANIST
Same as Alcoranist.
ALL
The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing;everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality;everything or every person; as, our all is at stake.Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak.All that thou seest is mine. Gen. xxxi. 43.
ALL FOURS
All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of aperson. To be, go, or run, on all fours (Fig.), to be on the samefooting; to correspond (with) exactly; to be alike in all thecircumstances to be considered. "This example is on all fours withthe other." "No simile can go on all fours." Macaulay.
ALL HAIL
All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.
ALL-A-MORT
See Alamort.
ALL-HAIL
To salute; to greet. [Poet.]Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the king,who all-hailed me "Thane of Cawdor." Shak.
ALL-POSSESSED
Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild.[Colloq.]
ALLA BREVE
With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung fasterlike four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the timesignature by
ALLAH
The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and theMohammedans generally.
ALLANITE
A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usuallyblack in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form andcomposition.
ALLANTOIC
Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois. Allantoic acid.(Chem.) See Allantoin.
ALLANTOIDEA
The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops anallantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals.
ALLANTOIN
A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in theallantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acidand amniotic acid.
ALLATRATE
To bark as a dog. [Obs.] Stubbes.
ALLAY
To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside. "When the rageallays." Shak.
ALLAYER
One who, or that which, allays.
ALLAYMENT
An allaying; that which allays; mitigation. [Obs.]The like allayment could I give my grief. Shak.
ALLECRET
A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. bythe Swiss. Fairholt.
ALLECT
To allure; to entice. [Obs.]
ALLECTATION
Enticement; allurement. [Obs.] Bailey.
ALLECTIVE
Alluring. [Obs.]
ALLEDGE
See Allege. [Obs.]
ALLEGATION
A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, --usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matterundertaken to be proved.
ALLEGE
To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble. [Obs.]Wyclif.
ALLEGEABLE
Capable of being alleged or affirmed.The most authentic examples allegeable in the case. South.
ALLEGEANCE
Allegation. [Obs.]
ALLEGEMENT
Allegation. [Obs.]With many complaints and allegements. Bp. Sanderson.
ALLEGER
One who affirms or declares.
ALLEGGE
See Alegge and Allay. [Obs.]
ALLEGIANT
Loyal. Shak.
ALLEGORIST
One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory. Hume.
ALLEGORIZATION
The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in anallegorical sense.
ALLEGORIZE
To use allegory. Holland.
ALLEGORIZER
One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; anallegorist.
ALLEGORY
A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notiondirectly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.
ALLEGRESSE
Joy; gladsomeness.
ALLEGRETTO
Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.-- n.
ALLEGRO
Brisk, lively.-- n.
ALLELOMORPH
One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or inpairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited invarying proportion among the organisms themselves. Allelomorphs whichunder certain circumstances are themselves compound are calledhypallelomorphs. See Mendel's law. -- Al*le`lo*mor"phic (#), a.
ALLEMANDE
A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in thereign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, likethose of Bach and Handel.
ALLEMANNIC
See Alemannic.
ALLENARLY
Solely; only. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
ALLER
Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ALLERION
Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings. Burke.
ALLEVIATIVE
Tending to alleviate.-- n.
ALLEVIATOR
One who, or that which, alleviaties.
ALLEVIATORY
Alleviative. Carlyle.
ALLEY
Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than theexit, so as to give the appearance of length.
ALLEYED
Furnished with alleys; forming an alley. "An alleyed walk." SirW. Scott.
ALLEYWAY
An alley.
ALLFOURS
A game at cards, called "High, Low, Jack, and the Game."
ALLHALLOND
Allhallows. [Obs.] Shak.
ALLHALLOW
The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.
ALLHALLOW EVE
The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.
ALLHALLOWMAS
The feast of All Saints.
ALLHALLOWN
Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] "Allhallownsummer." Shak. (i. e., late summer; "Indian Summer").
ALLHALLOWTIDE
The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.
ALLHEAL
A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to someother plants.
ALLIABLE
Able to enter into alliance.
ALLIACEOUS
Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks,etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.
ALLIANCE
To connect by alliance; to ally. [Obs.]
ALLIANT
An ally; a confederate. [Obs. & R.] Sir H. Wotton.
ALLICIENCY
Attractive power; attractiveness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ALLICIENT
That attracts; attracting.-- n.
ALLIED
United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.
ALLIGATE
To tie; to unite by some tie.Instincts alligated to their nature. Sir M. Hale.
ALLIGATION
A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning thecompounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients ofdifferent qualities or values.
ALLIGATOR
A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiarto America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile,and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw,which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of thesouthern United States, there are allied species in South America.
ALLIGATOR WRENCH
A kind of pipe wrench having a flaring jaw with teeth on oneside.
ALLIGNMENT
See Alignment.
ALLINEATE
To align. [R.] Herschel.
ALLISION
The act of dashing against, or striking upon.The boisterous allision of the sea. Woodward.
ALLITERAL
Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration.
ALLITERATE
To employ or place so as to make alliteration. Skeat.
ALLITERATION
The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two ormore words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals;as in the following lines: -Behemoth, biggest born of earth, upheaved His vastness. Milton.Fly o'er waste fens and windy fields. Tennyson.
ALLITERATIVE
Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as,alliterative poetry.-- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ly, adv.-- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ness, n.
ALLITERATOR
One who alliterates.
ALLIUM
A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive,etc.
ALLMOUTH
The angler.
ALLNESS
Totality; completeness. [R.]The allness of God, including his absolute spirituality, supremacy,and eternity. R. Turnbull.
ALLNIGHT
Light, fuel, or food for the whole night. [Obs.] Bacon.
ALLOCATUR
"Allowed." The word allocatur expresses the allowance of aproceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicialofficer.
ALLOCHROIC
Changeable in color.
ALLOCHROITE
See Garnet.
ALLOCHROOUS
Changing color.
ALLOD
See Allodium.
ALLODIAL
Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; heldindependent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodiallands; allodial system. Blackstone.
ALLODIALISM
The allodial system.
ALLODIALIST
One who holds allodial land.
ALLODIALLY
By allodial tenure.
ALLODIARY
One who holds an allodium.
ALLODIUM
Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of theowner; real estate held in absolute independence, without beingsubject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior. It isthus opposed to feud. Blackstone. Bouvier.
ALLOGAMOUS
Characterized by allogamy.
ALLOGAMY
Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from anotherof the same species; cross-fertilization.
ALLOGENEOUS
Different in nature or kind. [R.]
ALLOGRAPH
A writing or signature made by some person other than any ofthe parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph.
ALLOMERISM
Variability in chemical constitution without variation incrystalline form.
ALLOMEROUS
Characterized by allomerism.
ALLOMORPHIC
Of or pertaining to allomorphism.
ALLOMORPHISM
The property which constitutes an allomorph; the changeinvolved in becoming an allomorph.
ALLONGE
A thrust or pass; a lunge.
ALLONYMOUS
Published under the name of some one other than the author.
ALLOO
To incite dogs by a call; to halloo. [Obs.]
ALLOPATH
An allopathist. Ed. Rev.
ALLOPATHIC
Of or pertaining to allopathy.
ALLOPATHICALLY
In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods.
ALLOPATHIST
One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy.
ALLOPATHY
That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease bythe use of remedies which produce effects different from thoseproduced by the special disease treated; -- a term invented byHahnemann to designate the ordinary practice, as opposed tohomeopathy.
ALLOQUY
A speaking to another; an address. [Obs.]
ALLOTHEISM
The worship of strange gods. Jer. Taylor.
ALLOTMENT
The allowance of a specific amount of scrip or of a particularthing to a particular person. Cottage allotment, an allotment of asmall portion of land to a country laborer for garden cultivation.[Eng.]
ALLOTRIOPHAGY
A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food.
ALLOTROPHIC
Of or pertaining to allotropism.-- Al`lo*trop"ic*al*ly, adv. Allotropic state, the severalconditions which occur in a case of allotropism.
ALLOTROPICITY
Allotropic property or nature.
ALLOTROPIZE
To change in physical properties but not in substance. [R.]
ALLOTTABLE
Capable of being allotted.
ALLOTTEE
One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment ismade.
ALLOTTER
One who allots.
ALLOTTERY
Allotment. [Obs.] Shak.
ALLOW
To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement.Allowing still for the different ways of making it. Addison.To allow of, to permit; to admit. Shak.
ALLOWABLENESS
The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness;exemption from prohibition or impropriety. South.
ALLOWABLY
In an allowable manner.
ALLOWANCE
A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, differentin different countries, such as tare and tret.
ALLOWEDLY
By allowance; admittedly. Shenstone.
ALLOXAN
An oxidation product of uric acid. It is of a pale reddishcolor, readily soluble in water or alcohol.
ALLOXANATE
A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positiveradical.
ALLOXANIC
Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained bythe action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.
ALLOXANTIN
A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and verydilute nitric acid.
ALLOY
To form a metallic compound.Gold and iron alloy with ease. Ure.
ALLOY STEEL
Any steel containing a notable quantity of some other metalalloyed with the iron, usually chromium, nickel, manganese, tungsten,or vanadium.
ALLOYAGE
The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination oralloy.
ALLSPICE
The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the WestIndies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic;Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavorof cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name isalso given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice(Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called alsospicebush, spicewood, and feverbush.
ALLTHING
Altogether. [Obs.] Shak.
ALLUDE
To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to havereference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; --followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.These speeches . . . do seem to allude unto such ministerial garmentsas were then in use. Hooker.
ALLUMETTE
A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc.
ALLUMINOR
An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner. [Obs.]Cowell.
ALLURANCE
Allurement. [R.]
ALLURE
To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by theoffer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by somethingflattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract.With promised joys allured them on. Falconer.The golden sun in splendor likest Heaven Allured his eye. Milton.
ALLURER
One who, or that which, allures.
ALLURING
That allures; attracting; charming; tempting.-- Al*lur"ing*ly, adv.-- Al*lur"ing*ness, n.
ALLUSIVELY
Figuratively [Obs.]; by way of allusion; by implication,suggestion, or insinuation.
ALLUSIVENESS
The quality of being allusive.
ALLUSORY
Allusive. [R.] Warburton.
ALLUVIAL
Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relatingto the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place anddeposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations,deposits.
ALLUVION
An accession of land gradually washed to the shore or bank bythe flowing of water. See Accretion.
ALLUVIOUS
Alluvial. [R.] Johnson.
ALLUVIUM
Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter,made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanentlysubmerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas. Lyell.
ALLWHERE
Everywhere. [Archaic]
ALLWORK
Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork,that is, a general servant.
ALLY
See Alley, a marble or taw.
ALLYL
An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlicand mustard.
ALLYLENE
A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene;propine. CH3.C.CH
ALMA MATER
A college or seminary where one is educated.
ALMAGEST
The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which containsnearly all that is known of the astronomical observations andtheories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similarworks.
ALMAGRA
A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain. Itis the sil atticum of the ancients. Under the name of Indian red itis used for polishing glass and silver.
ALMANAC
A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, towhich astronomical data and various statistics are often added, suchas the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses,hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts,etc. Nautical almanac, an almanac, or year book, containingastronomical calculations (lunar, stellar, etc.), and otherinformation useful to mariners.
ALMANDINE
The common red variety of garnet.
ALMENDRON
The lofty Brazil-nut tree.
ALMERY
See Ambry. [Obs.]
ALMESSE
See Alms. [Obs.]
ALMIGHTILY
With almighty power.
ALMIGHTINESS
Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might. Jer.Taylor.
ALMNER
An almoner. [Obs.] Spenser.
ALMOND
One of the tonsils. Almond oil, fixed oil expressed from sweetor bitter almonds.-- Oil of bitter almonds, a poisonous volatile oil obtained frombitter almonds by maceration and distillation; benzoic aldehyde.-- Imitation oil of bitter almonds, nitrobenzene.-- Almond tree (Bot.), the tree bearing the almond.-- Almond willow (Bot.), a willow which has leaves that are of alight green on both sides; almond-leaved willow (Salix amygdalina).Shenstone.
ALMOND FURNACE
A kind of furnace used in refining, to separate the metal fromcinders and other foreign matter. Chambers.
ALMONDINE
See Almandine
ALMONER
One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religioushouses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another,as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc.
ALMONERSHIP
The office of an almoner.
ALMONRY
The place where an almoner resides, or where alms aredistributed.
ALMOSE
Alms. [Obs.] Cheke.
ALMOST
Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Acts xxvi. 28.Almost never, scarcely ever.-- Almost nothing, scarcely anything.
ALMRY
See Almonry. [Obs.]
ALMS
Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money,food, or clothing; a gift of charity.A devout man . . . which gave much alms to the people. Acts x. 2.Alms are but the vehicles of prayer. Dryden.Tenure by free alms. See Frankalmoign. Blackstone.
ALMSDEED
An act of charity. Acts ix. 36.
ALMSFOLK
Persons supported by alms; almsmen. [Archaic] Holinshed.
ALMSGIVER
A giver of alms.
ALMSGIVING
The giving of alms.
ALMSHOUSE
A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse.
ALMUCANTAR
A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circleor parallel of altitude. Two stars which have the same almucantarhave the same altitude. See Almacantar. [Archaic] Almucanter staff,an ancient instrument, having an arc of fifteen degrees, formerlyused at sea to take observations of the sun's amplitude at the timeof its rising or setting, to find the variation of the compass.
ALMUCE
Same as Amice, a hood or cape.
ALMUDE
A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal theLisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallonsU. S. measure. In Turkey the "almud" is about 1.4 gallons.
ALNAGE
Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for suchmeasurement.
ALNAGER
A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England,whose duty was to inspect act measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it aseal.
ALOE
The wood of the agalloch. [Obs.] Wyclif.
ALOES WOOD
See Agalloch.
ALOETIC
Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes.
ALOFT
In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards orrigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven.
ALOGIAN
One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and theApocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos. Shipley.
ALOGY
Unreasonableness; absurdity. [Obs.]
ALOIN
A bitter purgative principle in aloes.
ALOMANCY
Divination by means of salt. [Spelt also halomancy.] Morin.
ALONE
Solely; simply; exclusively.
ALONELY
Only; merely; singly. [Obs.]This said spirit was not given alonely unto him, but unto all hisheirs and posterity. Latimer.
ALONENESS
A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness. [R.]Bp. Montagu.
ALONG
By the length of, as distinguished from across. "Along thelowly lands." Dryden.The kine . . . went along the highway. 1 Sam. vi. 12.
ALONGSHORE
Along the shore or coast.
ALONGSHOREMAN
See Longshoreman.
ALONGSIDE
Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as,bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.
ALONGST
Along. [Obs.]
ALOOF
Same as Alewife.
ALOOFNESS
State of being aloof. Rogers (1642).The . . . aloofness of his dim forest life. Thoreau.
ALOPECIST
A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness.
ALOSE
To praise. [Obs.]
ALOUATTE
One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America.See Howler, 2.
ALOUD
With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly.Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice. Isa. lviii. 1.
ALOW
Below; in a lower part. "Aloft, and then alow." Dryden.
ALP
A bullfinch. Rom. of R.
ALPACA
An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair,supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.
ALPEN
Of or pertaining to the Alps. [R.] "The Alpen snow." J.Fletcher.
ALPENGLOW
A reddish glow seen near sunset or sunrise on the summits ofmountains; specif., a reillumination sometimes observed after thesummits have passed into shadow, supposed to be due to a curvingdownward (refraction) of the light rays from the west resulting fromthe cooling of the air.
ALPENSTOCK
A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps.Cheever.
ALPESTRINE
Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrinediseases, etc.
ALPHA
The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, andhence used to denote the beginning.In am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and thelast. Rev. xxii. 13.
ALPHA PAPER
A sensitized paper for obtaining positives by artificial light.It is coated with gelatin containing silver bromide and chloride.[Eng.]
ALPHA RAYS
Rays of relatively low penetrating power emitted by radium andother radioactive substances, and shown to consist of positivelycharged particles (perhaps particles of helium) having enormousvelocities but small masses. They are slightly deflected by a strongmagnetic or electric field.
ALPHABET
To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrangealphabetically. [R.]
ALPHABETARIAN
A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian. Abp. Sancroft.
ALPHABETICALLY
In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters.
ALPHABETICS
The science of representing spoken sounds by letters.
ALPHABETISM
The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet. Encyc. Brit.
ALPHOL
A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as anantiseptic and antirheumatic.
ALPHONSINE
Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252-1284). Alphonsine tables, astronomical tables prepared under thepatronage of Alphonso the Wise. Whewell.
ALPIGENE
Growing in Alpine regions.
ALPINIST
A climber of the Alps.
ALQUIFOU
A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters togive a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore.
ALREADY
Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future;by this time; previously. "Joseph was in Egypt already." Exod. i. 5.I say unto you, that Elias is come already. Matt. xvii. 12.
ALSATIAN
Pertaining to Alsatia.
ALSIKE
A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifoliumhybridum.
ALT
The higher part of the scale. See Alto. To be in alt, to be inan exalted state of mind.
ALTARPIECE
The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar;reredos.
ALTARWISE
In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of achurch with its ends towards the north and south. Shipley.
ALTAZIMUTH
An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously.
ALTER
To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as,the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure."The law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." Dan. vi. 8.
ALTERABILITY
The quality of being alterable; alterableness.
ALTERABLE
Capable of being altered.Our condition in this world is mutable and uncertain, alterable by athousand accidents. Rogers.
ALTERABLENESS
The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability.
ALTERABLY
In an alterable manner.
ALTERANT
Altering; gradually changing. Bacon.
ALTERATIVE
Causing ateration. Specifically:
ALTERCATE
The contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; towrangle.
ALTERCATION
Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat oranger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest. "Stormy altercations."Macaulay.
ALTERCATIVE
Characterized by wrangling; scolding. [R.] Fielding.
ALTERITY
The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise. [R.]For outness is but the feeling of otherness (alterity) renderedintuitive, or alterity visually represented. Coleridge.
ALTERN
Acting by turns; alternate. Milton. Altern base (Trig.), asecond side made base, in distinction from a side previously regardedas base.
ALTERNACY
Alternateness; alternation. [R.] Mitford.
ALTERNANT
Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks.
ALTERNAT
A usage, among diplomats, of rotation in precedence amongrepresentatives of equal rank, sometimes determined by lot and atother times in regular order. The practice obtains in the signing oftreaties and conventions between nations.
ALTERNATE
Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of thestem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence. Gray.Alternate alligation. See Alligation.-- Alternate angles (Geom.), the internal and angles made by twolines with a third, on opposite sides of it. It the parallels AB, CD,are cut by the line EF, the angles AGH, GHD, as also the angles BGHand GHC, are called alternate angles.-- Alternate generation. (Biol.) See under Generation.
ALTERNATELY
By alternation; when, in a proportion, the antecedent term iscompared with antecedent, and consequent.
ALTERNATENESS
The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.
ALTERNATING CURRENT
A current which periodically changes or reverses its directionof flow.
ALTERNATION
Permutation.
ALTERNATIVELY
In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of oneout of two things.
ALTERNATIVENESS
The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choicebetween two.
ALTERNATOR
An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternatingcurrents.
ALTERNITY
Succession by turns; alternation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
ALTHEINE
Asparagine.
ALTHING
The national assembly or parliament of Iceland. See Thing, n.,8.
ALTHO
Although. [Reformed spelling] Alt"horn`, n. Etym: [Alt + horn.](Mus.)
ALTHORN
An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively inmilitary music, often replacing the French horn. Grove.
ALTHOUGH
Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding;though.Although all shall be offended, yet will no I. Mark xiv. 29.
ALTILOQUENCE
Lofty speech; pompous language. [R.] Bailey.
ALTILOQUENT
High-sounding; pompous in speech. [R.] Bailey.
ALTIMETER
An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant,etc. Knight.
ALTIMETRY
The art of measuring altitudes, or heights.
ALTINCAR
See Tincal.
ALTISCOPE
An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person tosee an object in spite of intervening objects.
ALTISONANT
High-sounding; lofty or pompous. Skelton.
ALTISONOUS
Altisonant.
ALTISSIMO
The part or notes situated above F in alt.
ALTITUDE
The elevation of a point, or star, or other celestial object,above the horizon, measured by the arc of a vertical circleintercepted between such point and the horizon. It is either true orapparent; true when measured from the rational or real horizon,apparent when from the sensible or apparent horizon.
ALTITUDINAL
Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.
ALTITUDINARIAN
Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc. [R.] Coleridge.
ALTIVOLANT
Flying high. [Obs.] Blount.
ALTO
Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor,voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices,between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifiesthe tenor.
ALTO-CUMULUS
A fleecy cloud formation consisting of large whitish or grayishglobular cloudlets with shaded  portions, often grouped in flocks orrows.
ALTO-RELIEVO
Alto-rilievo.
ALTO-RILIEVO
High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project morethan half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or inalto-rilievo.
ALTO-STRATUS
A cloud formation similar to cirro-stratus, but heavier and ata lower level.
ALTOMETER
A theodolite. Knight.
ALTRICAL
Like the articles.
ALTRICES
Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young arehatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to requirethe care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to prรฆcoces.
ALTRUISM
Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to theinterests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism orselfishness. [Recent] J. S. Mill.
ALTRUIST
One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist.
ALTRUISTIC
Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to Ant:egoistic or Ant: selfish. Bain.-- Al`tru*is"tic*al*ly, adv.
ALUDEL
One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed asto be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another insuccession; -- used in the process of sublimation. Ure.
ALULA
A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.
ALULAR
Pertaining to the alula.
ALUM
A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element(esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four moleculesof water of crystallization.
ALUM ROOT
A North American herb (Heuchera Americana) of the Saxifragefamily, whose root has astringent properties.
ALUM STONE
A subsulphate of alumina and potash; alunite.
ALUMEN
Alum.
ALUMINA
One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium andthree of oxygen, Al2O3.
ALUMINATE
A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by thesubstitution of a metal for the hydrogen.
ALUMINATED
Combined with alumina.
ALUMINE
Alumina. Davy.
ALUMINIC
Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate.
ALUMINIFEROUS
Containing alum.
ALUMINIFORM
pertaining the form of alumina.
ALUMINIUM
The metallic base of alumina. This metal is white, but with abluish tinge, and is remarkable for its resistance to oxidation, andfor its lightness, pertaining a specific gravity of about 2.6. Atomicweight 27.08. Symbol Al. Aluminium bronze or gold, a pale gold-colored alloy of aluminium and copper, used for journal bearings,etc.
ALUMINIZE
To treat impregnate with alum; to alum.
ALUMINOGRAPHY
Art or process of producing, and printing from, aluminiumplates, after the manner of ordinary lithography. --A*lu`mi*no*graph"ic (#), a.
ALUMINOUS
Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminousminerals, aluminous solution.
ALUMINUM
See Aluminium.
ALUMISH
Somewhat like alum.
ALUMNA
A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.
ALUMNUS
A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminaryof learning.
ALUNITE
Alum stone.
ALUNOGEN
A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of minesand quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also calledfeather alum, and hair salt.
ALURE
A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.The sides of every street were covered with fresh alures of marble.T. Warton.
ALUTATION
The tanning or dressing of leather. [Obs.] Blount.
ALVEARY
The hollow of the external ear. Quincy.
ALVEATED
Formed or vaulted like a beehive.
ALVEOLAR
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells,sacs, or sockets. Alveolar processes, the processes of the maxillarybones, containing the sockets of the teeth.
ALVEOLARY
Alveolar. [R.]
ALVEOLATE
Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.
ALVEOLE
Same as Alveolus.
ALVEOLIFORM
Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, orcavities.
ALVEOLUS
A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil
ALVEUS
The channel of a river. Weate.
ALVINE
Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines;as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions.
ALWAY
Always. [Archaic or Poetic]I would not live alway. Job vii. 16.
ALYSSUM
A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum (A.maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet-scented flowers.
AM
The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicativemode, present tense. See Be.God said unto Moses, I am that am. Exod. iii. 14.
AMABILITY
Lovableness. Jer. Taylor.
AMACRATIC
Amasthenic. Sir J. Herschel.
AMADAVAT
The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estreldaamandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting. The female is olivebrown; the male, in summer, mostly crimson; -- called also redwaxbill. [Written also amaduvad and avadavat.]
AMADOU
A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletusand Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It hasbeen employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is astinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strongsolution of niter. Ure.
AMAIN
To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc.
AMALGAM
A native compound of mercury and silver.
AMALGAMA
Same as Amalgam.They divided this their amalgama into a number of incoherentrepublics. Burke.
AMALGAMATE
Coalesced; united; combined.
AMALGAMATIVE
Characterized by amalgamation.
AMALGAMATOR
One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically: A machinefor separating precious metals from earthy particles by bringing themin contact with a body of mercury with which they form an amalgam.
AMALGAMIZE
To amalgamate. [R.]
AMANITA
A genus of poisonous fungi of the family Agaricaceรฆ,characterized by having a volva, an annulus, and white spores. Thespecies resemble edible mushrooms, and are frequently mistaken forthem. Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius, is the fly amanita,or fly agaric; and A. phalloides is the death cup.
AMANITINE
The poisonous principle of some fungi.
AMANUENSIS
A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, orto copy what another has written.
AMARACUS
A fragrant flower. Tennyson.
AMARANT
Amaranth, 1. [Obs.] Milton.
AMARANTACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe amaranth is the type.
AMARANTH
A genus of ornamental annual plants (Amaranthus) of manyspecies, with green, purplish, or crimson flowers.
AMARANTHINE
Same as Amaranth.
AMARINE
A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil ofbitter almonds.
AMARITUDE
Bitterness. [R.]
AMASS
To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of;to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass wordsor phrases.The life Homer has been written by amassing all the traditions andhints the writers could meet with. Pope.
AMASSABLE
Capable of being amassed.
AMASSER
One who amasses.
AMASSETTE
An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors onthe stone in the process of grinding.
AMASSMENT
An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or numberbrought together; an accumulation.An amassment of imaginary conceptions. Glanvill.
AMASTHENIC
Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certainkind of lens; amacratic.
AMATE
To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt. [Obs. or Archaic]The Silures, to amate the new general, rumored the overthrow greaterthan was true. Milton.
AMATEUR
A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science asto music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, fromtaste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.
AMATEURISH
In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like thework of an amateur.-- Am`a*teur"ish*ly, adv.-- Am`a*teur"ish*ness, n.
AMATEURISM
The practice, habit, or work of an amateur.
AMATEURSHIP
The quality or character of an amateur.
AMATIVE
Full of love; amatory.
AMATIVENESS
The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity tolove. Combe.
AMATORIAL
Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as,amatorial verses.
AMATORIALLY
In an amatorial manner.
AMATORIAN
Amatory. [R.] Johnson.
AMATORIOUS
Amatory. [Obs.] "Amatorious poem." Milton.
AMATORY
Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as,amatory potions.
AMAUROSIS
A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the opticnerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- calledalso gutta serena, the "drop serene" of Milton.
AMAUROTIC
Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics ofamaurosis.
AMAZE
To be astounded. [Archaic] B. Taylor.
AMAZEDLY
In amazement; with confusion or astonishment. Shak.
AMAZEDNESS
The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise,or wonder. Bp. Hall.
AMAZEFUL
Full of amazement. [R.]
AMAZING
Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace.-- A*maz"ing*ly, adv.
AMAZON
A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genusChrysotis Amazon ant (Zoรถl.), a species of ant (Polyergus rufescens),of Europe and America. They seize by conquest the larvรฆ and nymphsother species and make slaves of them in their own nests.
AMAZONIAN
A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.
AMBAGES
A circuit; a winding. Hence: Circuitous way or proceeding;quibble; circumlocution; indirect mode of speech.After many ambages, perspicuously define what this melancholy is.Burton.
AMBAGINOUS
Ambagious. [R.]
AMBAGIOUS
Circumlocutory; circuitous. [R.]
AMBAGITORY
Ambagious. [R.]
AMBASSADORIAL
Of or pertaining to an ambassador. H. Walpole.
AMBASSADORSHIP
The state, office, or functions of an ambassador.
AMBASSADRESS
A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador. Prescott.
AMBASSAGE
Same as Embassage. [Obs. or R.] Luke xiv. 32.
AMBASSY
See Embassy, the usual spelling. Helps.
AMBER
A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as afossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore inmany places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipemouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. Byfriction, it becomes strongly electric.
AMBER FISH
A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.)
AMBER ROOM
A room formerly in the Czar's Summer Palace in Russia, whichwas richly decorated with walls and fixtures made from amber.  Theamber was removed by occupying German troops during the Second WorldWar and has, as of 1997, never been recovered.  The room is beingrecreated from old photographs by Russian artisans. PJC
AMBER SEED
Seed of the Hibiscus abelmoschus, somewhat resembling millet,brought from Egypt and the West Indies, and having a flavor like thatof musk; musk seed. Chambers.
AMBER TREE
A species of Anthospermum, a shrub with evergreen leaves,which, when bruised, emit a fragrant odor.
AMBERGREASE
See Ambergris.
AMBERGRIS
A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in theIndian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbidsecretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physetermacrocephalus), which is believed to be in all cases its true origin.In color it is white, ash-gray, yellow, or black, and oftenvariegated like marble. The floating masses are sometimes from sixtyto two hundred and twenty-five pounds in weight. It is whollyvolatilized as a white vapor at 212ยบ Fahrenheit, and is highly valuedin perfumery. Dana.
AMBES-AS
Ambs-ace. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AMBIDEXTER
Using both hands with equal ease. Smollett.
AMBIDEXTERITY
A juror's taking of money from the both parties for a verdict.
AMBIDEXTRAL
Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-handside. Earle.
AMBIDEXTROUSLY
In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly.
AMBIDEXTROUSNESS
The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity.
AMBIENT
Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing. "Ambientair." Milton. "Ambient clouds." Pope.
AMBIGENOUS
Of two kinds. (Bot.)
AMBIGU
An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at thesame time.
AMBIGUITY
The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness oruncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language,arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocalword or expression.No shadow of ambiguity can rest upon the course to be pursued. I.Taylor.The words are of single signification, without any ambiguity. South.
AMBIGUOUS
Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect tosignification; capable of being understood in either of two or morepossible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguousexpression.What have been thy answers What but dark, Ambiguous, and with doublesense deluding Milton.
AMBIGUOUSLY
In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning.
AMBIGUOUSNESS
Ambiguity.
AMBILEVOUS
Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter.[R.] Sir T. Browne.
AMBILOQUY
Doubtful or ambiguous language. [Obs.] Bailey.
AMBIPAROUS
Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers andleaves; -- applied to a bud.
AMBIT
Circuit or compass.His great parts did not live within a small ambit. Milward.
AMBITION
To seek after ambitiously or eagerly; to covet. [R.]Pausanias, ambitioning the sovereignty of Greece, bargains withXerxes for his daughter in marriage. Trumbull.
AMBITIONIST
One excessively ambitious. [R.]
AMBITIONLESS
Devoid of ambition. Pollok.
AMBITIOUSLY
In an ambitious manner.
AMBITIOUSNESS
The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness.
AMBITUS
A canvassing for votes.
AMBLER
A horse or a person that ambles.
AMBLINGLY
With an ambling gait.
AMBLOTIC
Tending to cause abortion.
AMBLYGON
An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle.[Obs.]
AMBLYGONAL
Obtuse-angled. [Obs.] Hutton.
AMBLYOPIC
Of or pertaining to amblyopy. Quain.
AMBLYPODA
A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in theTertiary formation of the United States.
AMBO
A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christianchurches. Gwilt.
AMBON
Same as Ambo.
AMBOYNA BUTTON
A chronic contagious affection of the skin, prevalent in thetropics.
AMBOYNA PINE
The resiniferous tree Agathis Dammara, of the Moluccas.
AMBOYNA WOOD
A beautiful mottled and curled wood, used in cabinetwork. It isobtained from the Pterocarpus Indicus of Amboyna, Borneo, etc.
AMBREATE
A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base orpositive radical.
AMBREIC
Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid producedby digesting ambrein in nitric acid.
AMBREIN
A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent ofambergris.
AMBRITE
A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand.
AMBROSE
A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3. Turner.
AMBROSIA BEETLE
A bark beetle that feeds on ambrosia.
AMBROSIAC
Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious. [R.]"Ambrosiacodors." B. Jonson.
AMBROSIALLY
After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully. "Smeltambrosially." Tennyson.
AMBROSIAN
Ambrosial. [R.] . Jonson.
AMBROSIN
An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing thefigure of St. Ambrose on horseback.
AMBROTYPE
A picture taken on a place of prepared glass, in which thelights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by adark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass.
AMBS-ACE
Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck;anything of no account or value.
AMBULACRAL
Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacralossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms.
AMBULACRIFORM
Having the form of ambulacra.
AMBULANT
Walking; moving from place to place. Gayton.
AMBULATE
To walk; to move about. [R.] Southey.
AMBULATION
The act of walking. Sir T. Browne.
AMBULATIVE
Walking. [R.]
AMBULATORIAL
Ambulatory; fitted for walking. Verrill.
AMBULATORY
Not yet fixed legally, or settled past alteration; alterable;as, the dispositions of a will are ambulatory until the death of thetestator.
AMBURRY
Same as Anbury.
AMBUSCADE
The body of troops lying in ambush.
AMBUSCADO
Ambuscade. [Obs.] Shak.
AMBUSCADOED
Posted in ambush; ambuscaded. [Obs.]
AMBUSH
To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; tolurk.Nor saw the snake that ambushed for his prey. Trumbull.
AMBUSHER
One lying in ambush.
AMBUSHMENT
An ambush. [Obs.] 2 Chron. xiii. 13.
AMBUSTION
A burn or scald. Blount.
AMEBEAN
See Am.
AMEL
Enamel. [Obs.] Boyle.
AMELCORN
A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- calledalso French rice.
AMELIORABLE
Capable of being ameliorated.
AMELIORATE
To make better; to improve; to meliorate.In every human being there is a wish to ameliorate his own condition.Macaulay.
AMELIORATION
The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated;making or becoming better; improvement; melioration. "Amelioration ofhuman affairs." J. S. Mill.
AMELIORATIVE
Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement;as, ameliorative remedies, efforts.
AMELIORATOR
One who ameliorates.
AMEN
An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So beit. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief.When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily.It is used as a noun, to demote: (a) concurrence in belief, or in astatement; assent; (b) the final word or act; (c) Christ as being onewho is true and faithful.And let all the people say, Amen. Ps. cvi. 48.Amen, amen, I say to thee, except a man be born again, he can not seethe kingdom of God. John ii. 3. Rhemish Trans.To say amen to, to approve warmly; to concur in heartily oremphatically; to ratify; as, I say Amen to all.
AMENABILITY
The quality of being amenable; amenableness. Coleridge.
AMENABLE
Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband. [Obs.]Jacob.
AMENABLENESS
The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answercharges; answerableness.
AMENABLY
In an amenable manner.
AMENAGE
To manage. [Obs.] Spenser.
AMENANCE
Behavior; bearing. [Obs.] Spenser.
AMEND
To change or modify in any way for the better; as,(a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous,faulty, and the like;(b) by supplying deficiencies;(c) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed;to rectify.Mar not the thing that can not be amended. Shak.An instant emergency, granting no possibility for revision, oropening for amended thought. De Quincey.We shall cheer her sorrows, and amend her blood, by wedding her to aNorman. Sir W. Scott.To amend a bill, to make some change in the details or provisions ofa bill or measure while on its passage, professedly for itsimprovement.
AMENDABLE
Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error.-- A*mend"a*ble*ness, n.
AMENDATORY
Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory. Bancroft.
AMENDE
A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.Amende honorable(#). (Old French Law) A species of infamouspunishment in which the offender, being led into court with a ropeabout his neck, and a lighted torch in his hand, begged pardon of hisGod, the court, etc. In popular language, the phrase now denotes apublic apology or recantation, and reparation to an injured party,for improper language or treatment.
AMENDER
One who amends.
AMENDFUL
Much improving. [Obs.]
AMENDMENT
Correction of an error in a writ or process.
AMENDS
Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation. [Nowconst. with sing. verb.] "An honorable amends." Addison.Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends. Shak.
AMENITY
The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respectto situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness;civility; suavity; gentleness.A sweetness and amenity of temper. Buckle.This climate has not seduced by its amenities. W. Howitt.
AMENORRHOEA
Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge.
AMENORRHOEAL
Pertaining to amenorrhoea.
AMENT
A species of inflorescence; a catkin.The globular ament of a buttonwood. Coues.
AMENTIA
Imbecility; total want of understanding.
AMENTIFEROUS
Bearing catkins. Balfour.
AMENTIFORM
Shaped like a catkin.
AMENTUM
Same as Ament.
AMENUSE
To lessen. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AMERCEABLE
Liable to be amerced.
AMERCEMENT
The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court;also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed. It differs from a fine,in thatthe latter is, or was originally, a fixed and certain sum prescribedby statue for an offense; but an amercement is arbitrary. Hence, theact or practice of affeering. [See Affeer.] Blackstone.
AMERCER
One who amerces.
AMERCIAMENT
Same as Amercement. Mozley & W.
AMERICAN
A native of America; -- originally applied to the aboriginalinhabitants, but now applied to the descendants of Europeans born inAmerica, and especially to the citizens of the United States.The name American must always exalt the pride of patriotism.Washington.
AMERICAN PLAN
In hotels, aplan upon which guests pay for both room and boardby the day, week, or other convenient period; -- contrasted withEuropean plan.
AMERICAN PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION
A secret organization in the United States, formed in Iowa in1887, ostensibly for the protection of American institutions bykeeping Roman Catholics out of public office. Abbrev. commonly to A.P .A.
AMERICANIZATION
The process of Americanizing.
AMERICANIZE
To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs,ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.
AMES-ACE
Same as Ambs-ace.
AMESS
Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice.
AMETABOLA
A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis.[Written also Ametabolia.]
AMETABOLIAN
Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.
AMETHODIST
One without method; a quack. [Obs.]
AMETHYST
A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violetcolor, of different shades. It is much used as a jeweler's stone.Oriental amethyst, the violet-blue variety of transparentcrystallized corundum or sapphire.
AMETROPIA
Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye.-- Am`e*trop"ic, a.
AMHARIC
Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, theAmharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic.-- n.
AMIA
A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined toNorth America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie,and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin.
AMIABILITY
The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness ofdisposition.Every excellency is a degree of amiability. Jer. Taylor.
AMIABLENESS
The quality of being amiable; amiability.
AMIABLY
In an amiable manner.
AMIANTH
See Amianthus. [Poetic]
AMIANTHIFORM
Resembling amianthus in form.
AMIANTHOID
Resembling amianthus.
AMIANTHUS
Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.
AMIC
Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix;as, amic acid; phosphamic acid. Amic acid (Chem.), one of a class ofnitrogenized acids somewhat resembling amides.
AMICABILITY
The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness. Ash.
AMICABLE
Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; afterthe manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicable disposition, orarrangement.That which was most remarkable in this contest was . . . the amicablemanner in which it was managed. Prideoux.Amicable action (Law.), an action commenced and prosecuted byamicable consent of the parties, for the purpose of obtaining adecision of the court on some matter of law involved in it. Bouvier.Burrill.-- Amicable numbers (Math.), two numbers, each of which is equal tothe sum of all the aliquot parts of the other.
AMICABLENESS
The quality of being amicable; amicability.
AMICABLY
In an amicable manner.
AMICE
A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but nowabout the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Churchwhile saying Mass.
AMID
See Amidst.
AMIDE
A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid elementor radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or morehydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical. Acidamide, a neutral compound formed by the substitution of the amidogroup for hydroxyl in an acid.
AMIDIN
Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, likehorn. It is soluble in cold water.
AMIDO
Containing, or derived from, amidogen. Amido acid, an acid inwhich a portion of the nonacid hydrogen has been replaced by theamido group. The amido acids are both basic and acid.-- Amido group, amidogen, NH2.
AMIDOGEN
A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state,which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one ofits hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group,and in composition represented by the form amido.
AMIDOL
A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as adeveloper.
AMIDSHIPS
In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, andsometimes also her breadth. Totten.
AMIGO
A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islandsto friendly natives.
AMINE
One of a class of strongly basic substances derived fromammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atomor radical.
AMINOL
A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containingamines, used as a local antiseptic.
AMIOID
Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.-- n.
AMIOIDEI
An order of ganoid fishes of which Amis is type. See Bowfin andGanoidei.
AMIR
Same as Ameer.
AMISH
The Amish Mennonites.
AMISS
Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.What error drives our eyes and ears amiss Shak.Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James iv. 3.To take (an act, thing) amiss, to impute a wrong motive to (an act orthing); to take offense at' to take unkindly; as, you must not takethese questions amiss.
AMISSIBILITY
The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost. [R.]Notions of popular rights and the amissibility of sovereign power formisconduct were alternately broached by the two great religiousparties of Europe. Hallam.
AMISSIBLE
Liable to be lost. [R.]
AMISSION
Deprivation; loss. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
AMIT
To lose. [Obs.]A lodestone fired doth presently amit its proper virtue. Sir T.Browne.
AMITOSIS
Cell division in which there is first a simple cleavage of thenucleus without change in its structure (such as the formation ofchromosomes), followed by the division of the cytoplasm; direct celldivision; -- opposed to mitosis. It is not the usual mode ofdivision, and is believed by many to occur chiefly in highlyspecialized cells which are incapable of long-continuedmultiplication, in transitory structures, and in those in earlystages of degeneration.
AMITOTIC
Of or pertaining to amitosis; karyostenotic; -- opposed tomitotic.
AMITY
Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies,or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty ofamity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories.To live on terms of amity with vice. Cowper.
AMMA
An abbes or spiritual mother.
AMMETER
A contraction of amperometer or ampรจremeter.
AMMIRAL
An obsolete form of admiral. "The mast of some great ammiral."Milton.
AMMITE
Oรถlite or roestone; -- written also hammite. [Obs.]
AMMONAL
An explosive consisting of a mixture of powdered aluminium andnitrate of ammonium.
AMMONIA
A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with apungent smell and taste: -- often called volatile alkali, and spiritsof hartshorn.
AMMONIACAL FERMENTATION
Any fermentation process by which ammonia is formed, as that bywhich urea is converted into ammonium carbonate when urine is exposedto the air.
AMMONIATED
Combined or impregnated with ammonia.
AMMONIC
Of or pertaining to ammonia.
AMMONITE
A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus. There aremany genera and species, and all are extinct, the typical formshaving existed only in the Mesozoic age, when they were exceedinglynumerous. They differ from the nautili in having the margins of thesepta very much lobed or plaited, and the siphuncle dorsal. Alsocalled serpent stone, snake stone, and cornu Ammonis.
AMMONITIFEROUS
Containing fossil ammonites.
AMMONITOIDEA
An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant inMesozoic rocks. See Ammonite.
AMMONIUM
A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of astrongly basic element like the alkali metals.
AMMUNITION
To provide with ammunition.
AMNESIA
Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease,in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place ofthose he wishes to employ. Quian.
AMNESIC
Of or pertaining to amnesia. "Amnesic or coรถrdinate defects."Quian.
AMNESTIC
Causing loss of memory.
AMNESTY
To grant amnesty to.
AMNICOLIST
One who lives near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.
AMNIGENOUS
Born or bred in, of, or near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.
AMNION
A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, andreptiles.
AMNIOS
Same as Amnion.
AMNIOTA
That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic lifethe envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds,and the mammals.
AMNIOTIC
Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as,the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac. Amniotic acid. (Chem.) [R.] SeeAllantoin.
AMOEBA
A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing manychanges of form at will. See Rhizopoda.
AMOEBAEUM
A poem in which persons are represented at speakingalternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil.
AMOEBEA
That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba andsimilar forms.
AMOEBEAN
Alternately answering.
AMOEBIAN
One of the Amoebea.
AMOEBOUS
Like an amoeba in structure.
AMOLE
Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, asthe roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc. [Sp.Amer. & Mex.]
AMOLITION
Removal; a putting away. [Obs.] Bp. Ward (1673).
AMOMUM
A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bearcardamoms, and grains of paradise.
AMONESTE
To admonish. [Obs.]
AMONTILLADO
A dry kind of cherry, of a light color. Simmonds.
AMORETTE
An amoret. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
AMORIST
A lover; a gallant. [R.] Milton.It was the custom for an amorist to impress the name of his mistressin the dust, or upon the damp earth, with letters fixed upon hisshoe. Southey.
AMOROSA
A wanton woman; a courtesan. Sir T. Herbert.
AMOROSITY
The quality of being amorous; lovingness. [R.] Galt.
AMOROSO
A lover; a man enamored.
AMOROUSLY
In an amorous manner; fondly.
AMOROUSNESS
The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love;lovingness.
AMORPHA
A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purpleflowers; false or bastard indigo. Longfellow.
AMORPHISM
A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being withoutcrystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal,etc.
AMORPHOZOA
Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as thesponges.
AMORPHOZOIC
Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa.
AMORPHY
Shapelessness. [Obs.] Swift.
AMORT
As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed. Shak.
AMORTIZABLE
Capable of being cleared off, as a debt.
AMORTIZATION
The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, whichwas considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or inmortmain.
AMORTIZE
To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation.See Mortmain.
AMORTIZEMENT
Same as Amortization.
AMOTUS
Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip doesnot touch the ground.
AMOUNT
To signify; to amount to. [Obs.]
AMOUR PROPRE
Self-love; self-esteem.
AMOVABILITY
Liability to be removed or dismissed from office. [R.] T.Jefferson.
AMOVABLE
Removable.
AMOVE
To dismiss from an office or station.
AMPELITE
An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to killinsects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceousalum schist.
AMPELOPSIS
A genus formerly including the Virginia creeper.
AMPERAGE
The strength of a current of electricity carried by a conductoror generated by a machine, measured in ampรจres.
AMPERE FOOT
A unit, employed in calculating fall of pressure indistributing mains, equivalent to a current of one ampรจre flowingthrough one foot of conductor.
AMPERE TURN
A unit equal to the product of one complete convolution (of acoiled conductor) into one ampรจre of current; thus, a conductorhaving five convolutions and carrying a current of half an ampรจre issaid to have 2ยฝ ampรจre turns. The magnetizing effect of a coil isproportional to the number of its ampรจre turns.
AMPERSAND
A word used to describe the character Halliwell.
AMPHI-
A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of bothkinds, on both sides, about, around.
AMPHIARTHRODIAL
Characterized by amphiarthrosis.
AMPHIARTHROSIS
A form of articulation in which the bones are connected byintervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis.
AMPHIASTER
The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division,consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle ofrodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle.
AMPHIBIA
One of the classes of vertebrates.
AMPHIBIAL
Amphibian. [R.]
AMPHIBIAN
Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles.
AMPHIBIOLOGICAL
Pertaining to amphibiology.
AMPHIBIOLOGY
A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of naturalhistory which treats of the Amphibia.
AMPHIBIOTICA
A division of insects having aquatic larvรฆ.
AMPHIBIOUSLY
Like an amphibious being.
AMPHIBIUM
An amphibian.
AMPHIBLASTIC
Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with completesegmentation.
AMPHIBOLE
A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color andin composition. It occurs in monoclinic crystals; also massive,generally with fibrous or columnar structure. The color varies fromwhite to gray, green, brown, and black. It is a silicate of magnesiumand calcium, with usually aluminium and iron. Some common varietiesare tremolite, actinolite, asbestus, edenite, hornblende (the lastname being also used as a general term for the whole species).Amphibole is a constituent of many crystalline rocks, as syenite,diorite, most varieties of trachyte, etc. See Hornblende.
AMPHIBOLOGICAL
Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous. "Amphibological expressions."Jer. Taylor.-- Am*phib`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
AMPHIBOLOGY
A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of twointerpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning. It differs fromequivocation, which arises from the twofold sense of a single term.
AMPHIBOLOUS
Capable of two meanings.An amphibolous sentence is one that is capable of two meanings, notfrom the double sense of any of the words, but from its admitting ofa double construction; e. g., "The duke yet lives that Henry shalldepose." Whately.
AMPHIBOLY
Ambiguous discourse; amphibology.If it oracle contrary to our interest or humor, we will create anamphiboly, a double meaning where there is none. Whitlock.
AMPHIBRACH
A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first andlast short (as, h. In modern prosody the accented syllable takes theplace of the long and the unaccented of the short; as, pro-phet''ic.
AMPHICHROIC
Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in thecolor test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.
AMPHICOME
A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences,anciently used in divination. [Obs.] Encyc. Brit.
AMPHICTYONIC
Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council;as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body. W. Smith.
AMPHICTYONS
Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to acongress or council. They considered both political and religiousmatters.
AMPHICTYONY
A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebratedconfederation known as the Amphictyonic Council. Its object was tomaintain the common interests of Greece.
AMPHID
A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and abase, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, ortellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound. [R.] Berzelius.
AMPHIDISC
A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheelat each end; -- found in freshwater sponges.
AMPHIDROMICAL
Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- socalled because the friends of the parents carried the child aroundthe hearth and then named it.
AMPHIGAMOUS
Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexualorgans; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order ofplants.
AMPHIGEAN
Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polarzones inclusive.
AMPHIGEN
An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- appliedby Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium. [R.]
AMPHIGENE
Leucite.
AMPHIGENESIS
Sexual generation; amphigony.
AMPHIGENOUS
Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens.
AMPHIGONIC
Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.[R.]
AMPHIGONOUS
Relating to both parents. [R.]
AMPHIGONY
Sexual propagation. [R.]
AMPHIGORIC
Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory.
AMPHIGORY
A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which onfurther attention proves to be meaningless. [Written alsoamphigouri.]
AMPHIMACER
A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the otherslong, as in cast. Andrews.
AMPHINEURA
A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry ofthe organs and the arrangement of the nerves.
AMPHIOXUS
A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or threeinches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet.Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and mostgeneralized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull,vertebrรฆ, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania,Leptocardia, etc.
AMPHIPNEUST
One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills atthe same time, as the proteus and siren.
AMPHIPOD
One of the Amphipoda.
AMPHIPODA
A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabitingboth fresh and salt water. The body is usually compressed laterally,and the anterior pairs or legs are directed downward and forward, butthe posterior legs are usually turned upward and backward. The beachflea is an example. See Tetradecapoda and Arthrostraca.
AMPHIPODOUS
Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.
AMPHIPROSTYLE
Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at thesides.-- n.
AMPHIRHINA
A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasalsac is double.
AMPHISBAENA
A genus of harmless lizards, serpentlike in form, without legs,and with both ends so much alike that they appear to have a head ateach, and ability to move either way. See Illustration in Appendix.
AMPHISBAENOID
Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbรฆna.
AMPHISTOMOUS
Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by meansof which they adhere.
AMPHISTYLIC
Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch andthe cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.
AMPHITHEATRAL
Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.
AMPHITHEATRICALLY
In the form or manner of an amphitheater.
AMPHITROCHA
A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventralcircle of special cilia.
AMPHIUMA
A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States,having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and twopersistent gill openings; the Congo snake.
AMPHOPEPTONE
A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone andantipeptone.
AMPHORA
Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at thebottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc.
AMPHORAL
Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora.
AMPHORIC
Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled,and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an emptydecanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance.
AMPHOTERIC
Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline;neutral. [R.] Smart.
AMPLE
Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious;roomy; widely extended.All the people in that ample house Did to that image bow their humbleknees. Spenser.
AMPLECTANT
Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils. Gray.
AMPLENESS
The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness;completeness.
AMPLEXATION
An embrace. [Obs.]An humble amplexation of those sacred feet. Bp. Hall.
AMPLEXICAUL
Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves. Gray.
AMPLIATE
To enlarge. [R.]To maintain and ampliate the external possessions of your empire.Udall.
AMPLIATION
A postponement of the decision of a cause, for furtherconsideration or re-argument.
AMPLIATIVE
Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already knownor received."All bodies possess power of attraction" is an ampliative judgment;because we can think of bodies without thinking of attraction as oneof their immediate primary attribute. Abp. W. Thomson.
AMPLIFICATE
To amplify. [Obs.] Bailey.
AMPLIFICATION
The enlarging of a simple statement by particularity ofdescription, the use of epithets, etc., for rhetorical effect;diffuse narrative or description, or a dilating upon all theparticulars of a subject.Exaggeration is a species of amplification. Brande & C.I shall summarily, without any amplification at all, show in whatmanner defects have been supplied. Sir J. Davies.
AMPLIFICATIVE
Amplificatory.
AMPLIFICATORY
Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative. Morell.
AMPLIFIER
One who or that which amplifies.
AMPLIFY
To enlarge by addition or discussion; to treat copiously byadding particulars, illustrations, etc.; to expand; to make much of.Troilus and Cressida was written by a Lombard author, but muchamplified by our English translator. Dryden.
AMPLITUDE
The horizontal line which measures the distance to which aprojectile is thrown; the range.
AMPLY
In an ample manner.
AMPUL
Same as Ampulla, 2.
AMPULLA
A narrow-necked vessel having two handles and bellying out likea jug.
AMPULLACEOUS
Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling.Kirby. Ampullaceous sac (Zoรถl.), one of the peculiar cavities in thetissues of sponges, containing the zooidal cells.
AMPULLIFORM
Flask-shaped; dilated.
AMPUTATE
To cut off (a limb or projecting part (of the body). Wiseman.
AMPUTATION
The act amputating; esp. the operation of cutting of a limb orprojecting part of the body.
AMPUTATOR
One who amputates.
AMPYX
A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the fronthair.
AMRITA
Immorality; also, the nectar conferring immortality.-- a. Ambrosial; immortal.
AMT
An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway.
AMUCK
In a frenzied and reckless. To run amuck, to rush out in astate of frenzy, as the Malays sometimes do under the influence of"bhang," and attack every one that comes in the way; to assailrecklessly and indiscriminately.Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet To run amuck, and tilt atall I meet. Pope.
AMULET
An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic,etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, suchas diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic formsor characters.
AMULETIC
Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm.
AMURCOUS
Full off dregs; foul. [R.] Knowles.
AMUSABLE
Capable of being amused.
AMUSE
To muse; to mediate. [Obs.]
AMUSER
One who amuses.
AMUSETTE
A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.
AMUSING
Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story.-- A*mus"ing*ly, adv.
AMUSIVE
Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excitemirth. [R.] -- A*mu"sive*ly, adv.-- A*mu"sive*ness, n.
AMVIS
An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative ofnitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal.
AMY
A friend. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AMYELOUS
Wanting the spinal cord.
AMYGDALACEOUS
Akin to, or derived from, the almond.
AMYGDALATE
Pertaining to, resembling, or made of, almonds.
AMYGDALIC
Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as,amygdalic acid.
AMYGDALIFEROUS
Almond-bearing.
AMYGDALIN
A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white,crystalline substance.
AMYGDALINE
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds.
AMYGDALOID
A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities,occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of differentminerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites. When theimbedded minerals are detached or removed by decomposition, it isporous, like lava.
AMYL
A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found inamyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc.
AMYL ALCOHOL
Any of eight isomeric liquid compounds, C5H11OH; ordinarily, amixture of two of these forming a colorless liquid with a peculiarcough-exciting odor and burning taste, the chief constituent of fuseloil. It is used as a source of amyl compounds, such as amyl acetate,amyl nitrite, etc.
AMYL NITRITE
A yellowish oily volatile liquid, C5H11NO2, used in medicine asa heart stimulant and a vasodilator. The inhalation of its vaporinstantly produces flushing of the face.
AMYLACEOUS
Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.
AMYLATE
A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atomor radical.
AMYLENE
One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of theethylene series. The colorless, volatile, mobile liquid commonlycalled amylene is a mixture of different members of the group.
AMYLIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether. Amylicalcohol (Chem.), one of the series of alcohols, a transparent,colorless liquid, having a peculiar odor. It is the hydroxide ofamyl.-- Amylic fermentation (Chem.), a process of fermentation in starchor sugar in which amylic alcohol is produced. Gregory.
AMYLOBACTER
A microรถrganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops invegetable tissue during putrefaction. Sternberg.
AMYLOGEN
That part of the starch granule or granulose which is solublein water.
AMYLOGENESIS
The formation of starch.
AMYLOID
The substance deposited in the organs in amyloid degeneration.
AMYLOLYSIS
The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins andsugar, esp. by the action of enzymes. -- Am`y*lo*lyt"ic (#), a.
AMYLOLYTIC
Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin andsugar; as, an amylolytic ferment. Foster.
AMYLOMETER
Instrument for determining the amount of starch in a substance.
AMYLOPLASTIC
Starch-forming; amylogenic.
AMYLOPSIN
The diastase of the pancreatic juice.
AMYLOSE
One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as,starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc.
AMYOUS
Wanting in muscle; without flesh.
AMYSS
Same as Amice, a hood or cape.
AN
This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called theindefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular numberonly, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. Insuch expressions as "twice an hour," "once an age," a shilling anounce (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalentto each, every.
ANA
Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or,contracted, aa), ., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces.An apothecary with a . . . long bill of anas. Dryden.
ANA-
A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward,throughout, backward, back, again, anew.
ANABAPTISM
The doctrine of the Anabaptists.
ANABAPTIST
A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding thatrebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.
ANABAPTISTRY
The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists. [R.]Thus died this imaginary king; and Anabaptistry was suppressed inMunster. Pagitt.
ANABAPTIZE
To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename. [R.] Whitlock.
ANABAS
A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living longout of water, and of making their way on land for considerabledistances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes.
ANABASIS
The first period, or increase, of a disease; augmentation.[Obs.]
ANABATIC
Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever. [Obs.]
ANABOLIC
Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes,more or less constructive in their nature.
ANABOLISM
The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished fromkatabolism.
ANABRANCH
A branch of a river that reรซnters, or anastomoses with, themain stream; also, less properly, a branch which loses itself insandy soil. [Australia]
ANACAMPTIC
Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).
ANACAMPTICALLY
By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically.Hutton.
ANACAMPTICS
A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, asthe cod.
ANACANTHOUS
Spineless, as certain fishes.
ANACARDIACEOUS
Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants ofwhich the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are wellknown examples.
ANACARDIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardicacid.
ANACARDIUM
A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew.
ANACATHARTIC
Producing vomiting or expectoration.-- n.
ANACHARIS
A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceรฆ),native to America. Transferred to England it became an obstruction tonavigation. Called also waterweed and water thyme.
ANACHORISM
An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; areferring something to a wrong place. [R.]
ANACHRONISM
A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error inchronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other,esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification ofchronological relation.
ANACHRONISTIC
Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism. T. Warton.
ANACHRONIZE
To refer to, or put into, a wrong time. [R.] Lowell.
ANACHRONOUS
Containing an anachronism; anachronistic.-- An*ach"ro*nous*ly, adv.
ANACLASTIC
Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as,anaclastic curves.
ANACLASTICS
That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; --commonly called dioptrics. Encyc. Brit.
ANACOENOSIS
A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponentsfor their opinion on the point in debate. Walker.
ANACOLUTHIC
Lacking grammatical sequence.-- An`a*co*lu"thic*al*ly, adv.
ANACOLUTHON
A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; aninstance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latterpart does not syntactically correspond with the first part.
ANACONDA
A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectesmurinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and smallmammals. The name is also applied to a similar large serpent (Pythontigris) of Ceylon.
ANACREONTIC
Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, theGreek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial. De Quincey.
ANACROTIC
Pertaining to anachronism.
ANACROTISM
A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in asphygmographic tracing.
ANACRUSIS
A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properlybeginning with an accented syllable.
ANADEM
A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath. Drayton. Tennyson.
ANADIPLOSIS
A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in asentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunctidea; as, "He retained his virtues amidst all his misfortunes --misfortunes which no prudence could foresee or prevent."
ANADROM
A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers.
ANADROMOUS
Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, forbreeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.
ANAEMIA
A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in qualityor in quantity.
ANAEMIC
Of or pertaining to anรฆmia.
ANAEROBIC
Relating to, or like, anaรซrobies; araรซrobiotic.
ANAEROBIES
Microรถrganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed byit. Sternberg.
ANAEROBIOTIC
Related to, or of the nature of, anaรซrobies.
ANAESTHESIA
Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; astate of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by theinhalation or application of an anรฆsthetic.
ANAESTHESIS
See Anรฆsthesia.
ANAESTHETIC
That which produces insensibility to pain, as chloroform,ether, etc.
ANAESTHETIZATION
The process of anรฆsthetizing; also, the condition of thenervous system induced by anรฆsthetics.
ANAESTHETIZE
To render insensible by an anรฆsthetic. Encyc. Brit.
ANAGLYPH
Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in lowrelief, as a cameo.
ANAGLYPHIC
Work chased or embossed relief.
ANAGLYPTIC
Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in lowrelief.
ANAGLYPTICS
The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc.
ANAGLYPTOGRAPH
An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossedobject, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed. Brande & C.
ANAGLYPTOGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, analyptographicengraving.
ANAGLYPTOGRAPHY
The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to givethe subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representingcoins, bas-reliefs, etc.
ANAGNORISIS
The unfolding or dรฉnouement. [R.] De Quincey.
ANAGOGE
Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest ofthe Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of thesaints in heaven; an anagogical explication.-- An`a*gog"ic*al*ly, adv.
ANAGOGICS
Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures. L.Addison.
ANAGOGY
Same as Anagoge.
ANAGRAM
Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in itsusual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another bythe transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus;William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) maybe turned into I moyl in law.
ANAGRAMMATISM
The act or practice of making anagrams. Camden.
ANAGRAMMATIST
A maker anagrams.
ANAGRAMMATIZE
To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form ananagram. Cudworth.
ANAGRAPH
An inventory; a record. [Obs.] Knowles.
ANAL
Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin orglands.
ANALCIME
A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite, occurring inisometric crystals. By friction, it acquires a weak electricity;hence its name.
ANALCITE
Analcime.
ANALECTIC
Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analecticmagazine.
ANALEMMA
An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of themeridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in theeast or west point of the horizon.
ANALEPTIC
Restorative; giving strength after disease.-- n.
ANALGESIA
Absence of sensibility to pain. Quain.
ANALLAGMATIC
Not changed in form by inversion. Anallagmatic curves, a classof curves of the fourth degree which have certain peculiar relationsto circles; -- sometimes called bicircular quartics.-- Anallagmatic surfaces, a certain class of surfaces of the fourthdegree.
ANALLANTOIC
Without, or not developing, an allantois.
ANALLANTOIDEA
The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed.It includes amphibians, fishes, and lower forms.
ANALOGAL
Analogous. [Obs.] Donne.
ANALOGIC
Of or belonging to analogy. Geo. Eliot.
ANALOGICALLY
In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way ofsimilitude.A prince is analogically styled a pilot, being to the state as apilot is to the vessel. Berkeley.
ANALOGICALNESS
Quality of being analogical.
ANALOGISM
an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument.Johnson.
ANALOGIST
One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy. Cheyne.
ANALOGIZE
To employ, or reason by, analogy.
ANALOGON
Analogue.
ANALOGOUS
Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing someresemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.Analogous tendencies in arts and manners. De Quincey.Decay of public spirit, which may be considered analogous to naturaldeath. J. H. Newman.nalogous pole (Pyroelect.), that pole of a crystal which becomespositively electrified when heated.
ANALOGUE
A word in one language corresponding with one in another; ananalogous term; as, the Latin "pater" is the analogue of the English"father."
ANALOGY
A relation or correspondence in function, between organs orparts which are decidedly different.
ANALYSIS
The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes,into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) whatelements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. Theformer is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.
ANALYST
One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraicalgeometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.
ANALYTICALLY
In an analytical manner.
ANALYTICS
The science of analysis.
ANALYZABLE
That may be analyzed.
ANALYZATION
The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts;analysis.
ANALYZE
To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into itselements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose ofan examination of each separately; to examine in such a manner as toascertain the elements or nature of the thing examined; as, toanalyze a fossil substance; to analyze a sentence or a word; toanalyze an action to ascertain its morality.No one, I presume, can analyze the sensations of pleasure or pain.Darwin.
ANALYZER
The part of a polariscope which receives the light afterpolarization, and exhibits its properties.
ANAMESE
Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia.-- n.
ANAMNESIS
A recalling to mind; recollection.
ANAMNESTIC
Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies.
ANAMNIOTIC
Without, or not developing, an amnion.
ANAMORPHISM
A gradual progression from one type to another, generallyascending. Huxley.
ANAMORPHOSCOPE
An instrument for restoring a picture or image distorted byanamorphosis to its normal proportions. It usually consists of acylindrical mirror.
ANAMORPHOSIS
A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of animage on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certainpoint, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron,appears regular and in proportion; a deformation of an image.
ANAMORPHOSY
Same as Anamorphosis.
ANAN
An expression equivalent to What did you say Sir Eh [Obs.]Shak.
ANANAS
The pineapple (Ananassa sativa).
ANANDROUS
Destitute of stamen
ANANGULAR
Containing no angle. [R.]
ANANTHEROUS
Destitute of anthers. Gray.
ANANTHOUS
Destitute of flowers; flowerless.
ANAPEST
A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first twoshort, or unaccented, the last long, or accented; the reverse of thedactyl. In Latin d, and in English in-ter-vene, are examples ofanapests.
ANAPESTIC
Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, ananapestic meter, foot, verse.-- n.
ANAPESTICAL
Anapestic.
ANAPHORA
A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two ormore successive clauses.
ANAPHRODISIA
Absence of sexual appetite.
ANAPHRODISIAC
Same as Antaphrodisiac. Dunglison.
ANAPHRODITIC
Produced without concourse of sexes.
ANAPLASTIC
Of or pertaining to anaplasty.
ANAPLASTY
The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normalshape by the use of healthy tissue.
ANAPLEROTIC
Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers.-- n.
ANAPNOGRAPH
A form of spirometer.
ANAPNOIC
Relating to respiration.
ANAPODEICTIC
Not apodeictic; undemonstrable. [R.]
ANAPOPHYSIS
An accessory process in many lumbar vertebrรฆ.
ANAPTOTIC
Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay;as, anaptotic languages.
ANAPTYCHUS
One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, asthe ammonites.
ANARCH
The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt. Milton.Imperial anarchs doubling human woes. Byron.
ANARCHAL
Lawless; anarchical. [R.]We are in the habit of calling those bodies of men anarchal which arein a state of effervescence. Landor.
ANARCHISM
The doctrine or practice of anarchists.
ANARCHIST
An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrowof civil government.
ANARCHIZE
To reduce to anarchy.
ANARTHROPODA
One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are nojointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda.
ANARTHROPODOUS
Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda.
ANARTHROUS
Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.
ANAS
A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certainspecies of fresh-water ducks.
ANASARCA
Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion ofserum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale,inelastic swelling of the skin.
ANASARCOUS
Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical.Wiseman.
ANASEISMIC
Moving up and down; -- said of earthquake shocks.
ANASTALTIC
Styptic. [Obs.] Coxe.
ANASTATE
One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, byconstructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm;-- opposed to katastate. Foster.
ANASTATIC
Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from charactersin relief on zinc plates.
ANASTIGMATIC
Not astigmatic; --said esp. of a lens system which consists ofa converging lens and a diverging lens of equal and oppositeastigmatism but different focal lengths, and sensibly free fromastigmatism.
ANASTOMOSE
To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as thearteries and veins.The ribbing of the leaf, and the anastomosing network of its vessels.I. Taylor.
ANASTOMOSIS
The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between twoor more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication betweenarteries or veins.
ANASTOMOTIC
Of or pertaining to anastomosis.
ANASTROPHE
An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed thehills, for, the hills echoed.
ANATHEMA
Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema.-- A*nath`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
ANATHEMATISM
Anathematization. [Obs.]We find a law of Justinian forbidding anathematisms to be pronouncedagainst the Jewish Hellenists. J. Taylor.
ANATHEMATIZATION
The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed;imprecation. Barrow.
ANATHEMATIZE
To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence: To condemnpublicly as something accursed. Milton.
ANATHEMATIZER
One who pronounces an anathema. Hammond.
ANATIFA
An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having afleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.
ANATIFER
Same as Anatifa.
ANATIFEROUS
Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifรฆ, under the absurd notionof their turning into ducks or geese. See Barnacle.
ANATINE
Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike.
ANATOCISM
Compound interest. [R.] Bouvier.
ANATOMICALLY
In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection.
ANATOMIST
One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection.
ANATOMIZATION
The act of anatomizing.
ANATOMIZER
A dissector.
ANATREPTIC
Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutativedialogues. Enfield.
ANATRON
Having the ovule inverted at an early period in itsdevelopment, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposedto orthotropous. Gray.
ANATTO
Same as Annotto.
ANCE
A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.
ANCESTOR
An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal isregarded as the ancestor of the horse.
ANCESTORIAL
Ancestral. Grote.
ANCESTORIALLY
With regard to ancestors.
ANCESTRAL
Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestoror ancestors; as, an ancestral estate. "Ancestral trees." Hemans.
ANCESTRESS
A female ancestor.
ANCHOR
An emblem of hope.
ANCHOR LIGHT
The lantern shown at night by a vessel at anchor. Internationalrules of the road require vessels at anchor to carry from sunset tosunrise a single white light forward if under 150 feet in length, andif longer, two such lights, one near the stern and one forward.
ANCHOR SHOT
A shot made with the object balls in an anchor space.
ANCHOR SPACE
In the balk-line game, any of eight spaces, 7 inches by 3ยฝ,lying along a cushion and bisected transversely by a balk line.Object balls in an anchor space are treated as in balk.
ANCHOR WATCH
A detail of one or more men who keep watch on deck at nightwhen a vessel is at anchor.
ANCHORABLE
Fit for anchorage.
ANCHORAGE
Abode of an anchoret.
ANCHORATE
Anchor-shaped.
ANCHORED
Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of ananchor; as, an anchored cross. [Sometimes spelt ancred.]
ANCHORESS
A female anchoret.And there, a saintly anchoress, she dwelt. Wordsworth.
ANCHORETISH
Hermitlike.
ANCHORETISM
The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.
ANCHORITE
Same as Anchoret.
ANCHORITESS
An anchoress. [R.]
ANCHORLESS
Without an anchor or stay. Hence: Drifting; unsettled.
ANCHOVY
A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herringfamily (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in theMediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also appliedto several allied species.
ANCHOVY PEAR
A West Indian fruit like the mango in taste, sometimes pickled;also, the tree (Grias cauliflora) bearing this fruit.
ANCHUSIN
A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root.
ANCHYLOSE
To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite orconsolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one.[Spelt also ankylose.] Owen.
ANCHYLOTIC
Of or pertaining to anchylosis.
ANCIENT
Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.
ANCIENTNESS
The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from oldtimes.
ANCILE
The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen fromheaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome.
ANCILLARY
Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.The Convocation of York seems to have been always considered asinferior, and even ancillary, to the greater province. Hallam.
ANCILLARY ADMINISTRATION
An administration subordinate to, and in aid of, the primary orprincipal administration of an estate.
ANCILLE
A maidservant; a handmaid. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ANCISTROID
Hook-shaped.
ANCLE
See Ankle.
ANCOME
A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.[Obs.] Boucher.
ANCON
The olecranon, or the elbow. Ancon sheep (Zoรถl.), a breed ofsheep with short crooked legs and long back. It originated inMassachusetts in 1791; -- called also the otter breed.
ANCONEUS
A muscle of the elbow and forearm.
ANCONOID
Elbowlike; anconal.
ANCONY
A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar inthe middle, but unwrought at the ends.
ANDABATISM
Doubt; uncertainty. [Obs.] Shelford.
ANDALUSITE
A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombicprisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint. It wasfirst discovered in Andalusia, Spain.
ANDANTE
Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker thanlarghetto, and slower than allegretto.-- n.
ANDANTINO
Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.
ANDARAC
Red orpiment. Coxe.
ANDEAN
Pertaining to the Andes.
ANDESINE
A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.
ANDESITE
An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially ofa triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene.
ANDINE
Andean; as, Andine flora.
ANDIRON
A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, onebeing placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons.
ANDRANATOMY
The dissection of a human body, especially of a male;androtomy. Coxe.
ANDROCEPHALOUS
Having a human head (upon an animal's body), as the Egyptiansphinx.
ANDROECIUM
The stamens of a flower taken collectively.
ANDROGYNE
An androgynous plant. Whewell.
ANDROID
Resembling a man.
ANDROMEDA
A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythicalAndromeda.
ANDRON
The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lowerpart of the house.
ANDROPETALOUS
Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, asdouble flowers, like the garden ranunculus. Brande.
ANDROPHAGI
Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi. [R.]
ANDROPHAGOUS
Anthropophagous.
ANDROPHORE
A support or column on which stamens are raised. Gray.
ANDROPOGON
A very large and important genus of grasses, found in nearlyall parts of the world. It includes the lemon grass of Ceylon and thebeard grass, or broom sedge, of the United States. The principalsubgenus is Sorghum, including  A. sorghum and A. halepensis, fromwhich have been derived the Chinese sugar cane, the Johnson grass,the Aleppo grass, the broom corn, and the durra, or Indian millet.Several East Indian species, as A. nardus and A. schonanthus, yieldfragrant oils, used in perfumery.
ANDROSPHINX
A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body ofa lion.
ANDROSPORE
A spore of some algรฆ, which has male functions.
ANDROTOMOUS
Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts.
ANDROTOMY
Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zoรถtomy;anthropotomy. [R.]
ANDROUS
A terminal combining form: Having a stamen or stamens;staminate; as, monandrous, with one stamen; polyandrous, with manystamens.
ANEAR
Near. [R.] "It did not come anear." Coleridge.The measure of misery anear us. I. Taylor.
ANEATH
Beneath. [Scot.]
ANECDOTAGE
Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes.All history, therefore, being built partly, and some of italtogether, upon anecdotage, must be a tissue of lies. De Quincey.
ANECDOTAL
Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotalconversation.
ANECDOTE
Unpublished narratives. Burke.
ANECDOTIST
One who relates or collects anecdotes.
ANELACE
Same as Anlace.
ANELECTRIC
Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed toidioelectric.-- n.
ANELECTRODE
The positive pole of a voltaic battery.
ANELECTROTONUS
The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in theregion of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a currentof electricity through it. Foster.
ANEMOGRAM
A record made by an anemograph.
ANEMOGRAPH
An instrument for measuring and recording the direction andforce of the wind. Knight.
ANEMOGRAPHIC
Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.
ANEMOLOGY
The science of the wind.
ANEMOMETER
An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind;a wind gauge.
ANEMOMETROGRAPH
An anemograph. Knight.
ANEMOMETRY
The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of thewind.
ANEMONE
A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family;windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.
ANEMONIC
An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from,the anemone, or from anemonin.
ANEMONIN
An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained fromsome species of anemone.
ANEMONY
See Anemone. Sandys.
ANEMORPHILOUS
Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants inwhich the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind-Fertilized. Lubbock.
ANEMOSCOPE
An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a windvane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consistingof a vane above, connected in the building with a dial or index withpointers to show the changes of the wind.
ANEMOSIS
A condition in the wood of some trees in which the rings areseparated, as some suppose, by the action of high winds upon thetrunk; wind shake.
ANENTEROUS
Destitute of a stomach or an intestine. Owen.
ANEROID
Containing no liquid; -- said of kind of barometer. Aneroidbarometer, a barometer the action of which depends on the varyingpressure of the atmosphere upon the elastic top of a metallic box(shaped like a watch) from which the air has been exhausted. An indexshows the variation of pressure.
ANES
Once. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
ANET
The herb dill, or dillseed.
ANETHOL
A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel,etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anisecamphor. Watts.
ANETIC
Soothing.
ANEURISM
A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising fromthe preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery.[Written also aneurysm.]
ANEURISMAL
Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor;aneurismal diathesis. [Written also aneurysmal.]
ANEW
Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to armanew; to create anew. Dryden.
ANFRACTUOSE
Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.
ANFRACTUOSITY
A sinuous depression or sulcus like those separating theconvolutions of the brain.
ANFRACTUOUS
Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as,the anfractuous spires of a born.-- An*frac"tu*ous*ness, n.
ANFRACTURE
A mazy winding.
ANGARIATION
Exaction of forced service; compulsion. [Obs.] Speed.
ANGEL
An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of thearchangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s. Amer. Cyc.
ANGEL FISH
See under Angel.
ANGELAGE
Existence or state of angels.
ANGELET
A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel.Eng. Cyc.
ANGELHOOD
The state of being an angel; angelic nature. Mrs. Browning.
ANGELIC
Of or derived from angelica; as, angelic acid; angelic ether.Angelic acid, an acid obtained from angelica and some other plants.
ANGELICALLY
Like an angel.
ANGELICALNESS
The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human.
ANGELIFY
To make like an angel; to angelize. [Obs.] Farindon (1647).
ANGELIZE
To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic.It ought not to be our object to angelize, nor to brutalize, but tohumanize man. W. Taylor.
ANGELLIKE
Resembling an angel.
ANGELOLATRY
Worship paid to angels.
ANGELOLOGY
A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard toangels.The same mythology commanded the general consent; the sameangelology, demonology. Milman.
ANGELOPHANY
The actual appearance of an angel to man.
ANGERLY
Angrily. [Obs. or Poetic]Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly. Shak.
ANGEVINE
Of or pertaining to Anjou in France.-- n. A native of Anjou.
ANGIENCHYMA
Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels,dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels.
ANGINA
Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as thequinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tendsto produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. Anginapectoris, a peculiarly painful disease, so named from a sense ofsuffocating contraction or tightening of the lower part of the chest;-- called also breast pang, spasm of the chest.
ANGIO-
A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usuallyrelating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, orcovered by, a vessel.
ANGIOGRAPHY
A description of blood vessels and lymphatics.
ANGIOLOGY
That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels andlymphatics.
ANGIOMA
A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels.
ANGIOMONOSPERMOUS
Producing one seed only in a seed pod.
ANGIONEUROSIS
Any disorder of the vasomotor system; neurosis of a bloodvessel. --An`gi*o*neu*rot"ic (#), a.
ANGIOPATHY
Disease of the vessels, esp. the blood vessels.
ANGIOSCOPE
An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animalsand plants. Morin.
ANGIOSPERM
A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.
ANGIOSPERMATOUS
Same as Angiospermous.
ANGIOSPERMOUS
Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp.
ANGIOSPOROUS
Having spores contained in cells or thecรฆ, as in the case ofsome fungi.
ANGIOSTOMOUS
With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods.
ANGIOTOMY
Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body.Dunglison.
ANGLE
A name given to four of the twelve astrological "houses."[Obs.] Chaucer.
ANGLE OF ENTRY
The angle between the tangent to the advancing edge (of anaรซrocurve) and the line of motion; -- contrasted with angle of trail,which is the angle between the tangent to the following edge and theline of motion.
ANGLE OF INCIDENCE
The angle between the chord of an aรซrocurve and the relativedirection of the undisturbed air current.
ANGLED
Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right-angled, many-angled, etc.The thrice three-angled beechnut shell. Bp. Hall.
ANGLEMETER
An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists tomeasure the dip of strata.
ANGLER
A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having alarge, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiarappendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes withinreach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish,allmouth, monkfish, etc.
ANGLES
An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, whichcame to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Anglesprobably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits ofSchleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc.
ANGLESITE
A native sulphate of lead. It occurs in white or yellowishtransparent, prismatic crystals.
ANGLEWISE
In an angular manner; angularly.
ANGLEWORM
A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglersfor bait. See Earthworm.
ANGLIAN
Of or pertaining to the Angles.-- n.
ANGLIC
Anglian.
ANGLICE
In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, AngliceLeghorn.
ANGLICIFY
To anglicize. [R.]
ANGLICITY
The state or quality of being English.
ANGLICIZATION
The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.
ANGLICIZE
To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable tothe English idiom, or to English analogies.
ANGLIFY
To convert into English; to anglicize. Franklin. Darwin.
ANGLING
The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod andline. Walton.
ANGLO-
A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and,or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German,Anglo-Irish. Anglo-American, . Of or pertaining to the English andAmericans, or to the descendants of Englishmen in America.-- n. A descendant from English ancestors born in America, or theUnited States. Anglo-Danish, a. Of or pertaining to the English andDanes, or to the Danes who settled in England. Anglo-Indian, a. Of orpertaining to the English in India, or to the English and East Indianpeoples or languages.-- n. One of the Anglo-Indian race born or resident in the EastIndies. Anglo-Norman, a. Of or pertaining to the English and Normans,or to the Normans who settled in England.-- n. One of the English Normans, or the Normans who conqueredEngland. Anglo-Saxon. See Anglo-Saxon in the Vocabulary.
ANGLO-CATHOLIC
Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the EnglishReformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic orHigh Church section of the Church of England.
ANGLO-CATHOLICISM
The belief of those in the Church of England who accept manydoctrines and practices which they maintain were those of theprimitive, or true, Catholic Church, of which they consider theChurch of England to be the lineal descendant.
ANGLO-SAXON
The Teutonic people (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) of England, or theEnglish people, collectively, before the Norman Conquest.It is quite correct to call รthelstan "King of the Anglo-Saxons," butto call this or that subject of รthelstan "an Anglo-Saxon" is simplynonsense. E. A. Freeman.
ANGLO-SAXONDOM
The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the UnitedStates, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.
ANGLOMANIA
A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs,institutions, etc.
ANGLOMANIAC
One affected with Anglomania.
ANGLOPHOBIA
Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English.-- An"glo*phobe, n.
ANGOLA
A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.
ANGOLA PEA
A tropical plant (Cajanus indicus) and its edible seed, a kindof pulse; -- so called from Angola in Western Africa. Called alsopigeon pea and Congo pea.
ANGOR
Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upperpart of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression.
ANGORA
A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name toa goat, a cat, etc. Angora cat (Zoรถl.), a variety of the domestic catwith very long and silky hair, generally of the brownish white color.Called also Angola cat. See Cat.-- Angora goat (Zoรถl.), a variety of the domestic goat, reared forits long silky hair, which is highly prized for manufacture.
ANGOSTURA BARK
An aromatic bark used as a tonic, obtained from a SouthAmerican of the rue family (Galipea cusparia, or officinalis). U. S.Disp.
ANGOUMOIS MOTH
A small moth (Gelechia cerealella) which is very destructive towheat and other grain. The larva eats out the inferior of the grain,leaving only the shell.
ANGRILY
In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.
ANGRINESS
The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger.Such an angriness of humor that we take fire at everything. WholeDuty of Man.
ANGUIFORM
Snake-shaped.
ANGUILLIFORM
Eel-shaped.
ANGUINE
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent. "Theanguine or snakelike reptiles." Owen.
ANGUINEAL
Anguineous.
ANGUINEOUS
Snakelike.
ANGUISH
Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.But they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and forcruel bondage. Ex. vi. 9.Anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child. Jer. iv. 31.
ANGULAR
A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles,and fishes.
ANGULARITY
The quality or state of being angular; angularness.
ANGULARLY
In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners. B. Jonson.
ANGULARNESS
The quality of being angular.
ANGULATE
To make angular.
ANGULATION
A making angular; angular formation. Huxley.
ANGULO-DENTATE
Angularly toothed, as certain leaves.
ANGULOMETER
An instrument for measuring external angles.
ANGULOSE
Angulous. [R.]
ANGULOSITY
A state of being angulous or angular. [Obs.]
ANGULOUS
Angular; having corners; hooked. [R.]Held together by hooks and angulous involutions. Glanvill.
ANGUST
Narrow; strait. [Obs.]
ANGUSTATE
Narrowed.
ANGUSTATION
The act or making narrow; a straitening or contacting. Wiseman.
ANGUSTICLAVE
A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side ofthe tunic as a sign of rank.
ANGUSTURA BARK
See Angostura bark.
ANGWANTIBO
A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa. Ithas only a rudimentary tail.
ANHANG
To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ANHARMONIC
Not harmonic. The anharmonic function or ratio of four pointsabcd on a straight line is the quantity (ac/ad):(bc/bd), where thesegments are to regarded as plus or minus, according to the order ofthe letters.
ANHELATION
Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma. Glanvill.
ANHELE
To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for). [Obs.]They anhele . . . for the fruit of our convocation. Latimer.
ANHELOSE
Anhelous; panting. [R.]
ANHELOUS
Short of breath; panting.
ANHIMA
A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi(Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi.
ANHINGA
An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga);the darter, or snakebird.
ANHISTOUS
Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.
ANHUNGERED
Ahungered; longing. [Archaic]
ANHYDRIDE
An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capableof forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- socalled because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction ofwater.
ANHYDRITE
A mineral of a white a slightly bluish color, usually massive.It is anhydrous sulphate of lime, and differs from gypsum in notcontaining water (whence the name).
ANHYDROUS
Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.
ANIGH
Nigh. [Archaic]
ANIL
A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the originalsources of indigo; also, the indigo dye.
ANILE
Old-womanish; imbecile. "Anile ideas." Walpole.
ANILENESS
Anility. [R.]
ANILIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied toan acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo. [R.]
ANILIDE
One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides inwhich more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl.
ANILINE
An organic base belonging to the phenylamines. It may beregarded as ammonia in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced bythe radical phenyl. It is a colorless, oily liquid, originallyobtained from indigo by distillation, but now largely manufacturedfrom coal tar or nitrobenzene as a base from which many brilliantdyes are made.
ANILINISM
A disease due to inhaling the poisonous fumes present in themanufacture of aniline.
ANILITY
The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage."Marks of anility." Sterne.
ANIMADVERSAL
The faculty of perceiving; a percipient. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
ANIMADVERSIVE
Having the power of perceiving; percipient. [Archaic] Glanvill.I do not mean there is a certain number of ideas glaring and shiningto the animadversive faculty. Coleridge.
ANIMADVERTER
One who animadverts; a censurer; also [Obs.], a chastiser.
ANIMAL
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules. "Animalcularlife." Tyndall.
ANIMALCULE
An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. SeeInfusoria.
ANIMALCULISM
The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological andpathological by means of animalcules.
ANIMALCULUM
An animalcule.
ANIMALISH
Like an animal.
ANIMALISM
The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal lifewithout intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality.
ANIMALITY
Animal existence or nature. Locke.
ANIMALLY
Physically. G. Eliot.
ANIMALNESS
Animality. [R.]
ANIMASTIC
Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual.
ANIMATE
Endowed with life; alive; living; animated; lively.The admirable structure of animate bodies. Bentley.
ANIMATED
Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicatinganimation; lively; vigorous. "Animated sounds." Pope. "Animatedbust." Gray. "Animated descriptions." Lewis.
ANIMATEDLY
With animation.
ANIMATER
One who animates. De Quincey.
ANIMATING
Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing."Animating cries." Pope.-- An"i*ma`ting*ly, adv.
ANIMATIVE
Having the power of giving life or spirit. Johnson.
ANIMATOR
One who, or that which, animates; an animater. Sir T. Browne.
ANIME
Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of theeyes of a rapacious animal. Brande & C.
ANIMIST
One who maintains the doctrine of animism.
ANIMISTIC
Of or pertaining to animism. Huxley. Tylor.
ANIMOSENESS
Vehemence of temper. [Obs.]
ANIMUS
Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym: [L.](Law), intention of stealing.
ANION
An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed tocation. Faraday.
ANISE
An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally inEgypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative andaromatic seeds.
ANISEED
The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it. "Oilof aniseed." Brande & C.
ANISETTE
A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds. DeColange.
ANISIC
Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.
ANISOCORIA
Inequality of the pupils of the eye.
ANISODACTYLOUS
Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and onebackward, as in most passerine birds.
ANISOL
Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid orby the action of methide on potassium phenolate.
ANISOMERIC
Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the sameproportions.
ANISOMEROUS
Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals andsix stamens.
ANISOMETRIC
Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystalswith three unequal axes. Dana.
ANISOMETROPIA
Unequal refractive power in the two eyes.
ANISOPETALOUS
Having unequal petals.
ANISOPHYLLOUS
Having unequal leaves.
ANISOPLEURA
A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiralshells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.
ANISOPODA
A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, isintermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.
ANISOSPORE
A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed toisospore.
ANISOSTEMONOUS
Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number fromthe petals.
ANISOSTHENIC
Of unequal strength.
ANISOTROPOUS
Anisotropic.
ANITO
In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit.
ANKER
A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutchanker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the oldwine gallons, or 8
ANKERITE
A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.
ANKH
A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute orsacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called alsocrux ansata.
ANKLE
The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.Ankle bone, the bone of the ankle; the astragalus.
ANKLED
Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. Beau. &Fl.
ANKLET
An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.
ANKUS
An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling ashort-handled boat hook. [India] Kipling.
ANKYLOSE
Same as Anchylose.
ANKYLOSIS
Same as Anchylosis.
ANKYLOSTOMIASIS
A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostomaduodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or alliednematodes, in the small intestine. When present in large numbers theyproduce a severe anรฆmia by sucking the blood from the intestinalwalls.  Called also miner's anรฆmia, tunnel disease, brickmaker'sanรฆmia, Egyptian chlorosis.
ANLACE
A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle. [Written alsoanelace.]
ANLAUT
An initial sound, as of a word or syllable.
ANNA
An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, orabout 2
ANNAL
See Annals.
ANNALIST
A writer of annals.The monks . . . were the only annalists in those ages. Hume.
ANNALISTIC
Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dryannalistic style."A stiff annalistic method." Sir G. C. Lewis.
ANNALIZE
To record in annals. Sheldon.
ANNALS
The record of a single event or item. "In deathless annal."Young.
ANNEALER
One who, or that which, anneals.
ANNECTENT
Connecting; annexing. Owen.
ANNELIDA
A division of the Articulata, having the body formed ofnumerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. Theprincipal subdivisions are the Chรฆtopoda, including the Oligochรฆta orearthworms and Polychรฆta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea orleeches. See Chรฆtopoda.
ANNELIDOUS
Of the nature of an annelid.
ANNELLATA
See Annelida.
ANNELOID
An animal resembling an annelid.
ANNEX
To join; to be united. Tooke.
ANNEXATIONIST
One who favors annexation.
ANNEXER
One who annexes.
ANNEXION
Annexation. [R.] Shak.
ANNEXIONIST
An annexationist. [R.]
ANNEXMENT
The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage. [R.]Shak.
ANNIHILABLE
Capable of being annihilated.
ANNIHILATE
Anhilated. [Archaic] Swift.
ANNIHILATIONIST
One who believes that eternal punishment consists inannihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.
ANNIHILATIVE
Serving to annihilate; destructive.
ANNIHILATOR
One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.
ANNIHILATORY
Annihilative.
ANNIVERSARILY
Annually. [R.] Bp. Hall.
ANNIVERSARY
Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as,an anniversary feast. Anniversary day (R. C. Ch.). See Anniversary,n., 2.-- Anniversary week, that week in the year in which the annualmeetings of religious and benevolent societies are held in Boston andNew York. [Eastern U. S.]
ANNIVERSE
Anniversary. [Obs.] Dryden.
ANNO DOMINI
In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887.
ANNODATED
Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S. Cussans.
ANNOMINATE
To name. [R.]
ANNOTATE
To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works ofBacon.
ANNOTATION
A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually inthe plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or apassage.
ANNOTATIONIST
An annotator. [R.]
ANNOTATIVE
Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.
ANNOTATOR
A writer of annotations; a commentator.
ANNOTATORY
Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations. [R.]
ANNOTINE
A bird one year old, or that has once molted.
ANNOTINOUS
A year old; in Yearly growths.
ANNOUNCEMENT
The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces;proclamation; publication.
ANNOUNCER
One who announces.
ANNOY
A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what onedislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.Worse than Tantalus' is her annoy. Shak.
ANNOYER
One who, or that which, annoys.
ANNOYFUL
Annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ANNOYING
That annoys; molesting; vexatious.-- An*noy"ing*ly, adv.
ANNOYOUS
Troublesome; annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ANNUAL
A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, saiddaily for a year or on the anniversary day.
ANNUALIST
One who writes for, or who edits, an annual. [R.]
ANNUALLY
Yearly; year by year.
ANNUARY
Annual. [Obs.] -- n.
ANNUELER
A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.[Obs.] Chaucer.
ANNUENT
Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).
ANNUITANT
One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity. Lamb.
ANNUITY
A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given numberof years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.
ANNULARITY
Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J.Rogers.
ANNULARRY
In an annular manner.
ANNULARY
Having the form of a ring; annular. Ray.
ANNULATA
A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida,including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma,leeches, etc. See Annelida.
ANNULATE
One of the Annulata.
ANNULATION
A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt. Nicholson.
ANNULET
A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used byitself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated,under the Doric capital.
ANNULLABLE
That may be Annulled.
ANNULLER
One who annuls. [R.]
ANNULMENT
The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.
ANNULOID
Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.
ANNULOIDA
A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and alliedgroups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.[Written also Annuloidea.]
ANNULOSA
A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to theArticulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By somezoรถlogists it is applied to the former only.
ANNULOSAN
One of the Annulosa.
ANNULOSE
Of or pertaining to the Annulosa.
ANNULUS
Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, variousanimals.
ANNUMERATE
To add on; to count in. [Obs.] Wollaston.
ANNUMERATION
Addition to a former number. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ANNUNCIABLE
That may be announced or declared; declarable. [R.]
ANNUNCIATE
To announce.
ANNUNCIATION LILY
The common white lily (Lilium candidum). So called because itis usually introduced by painters in pictures of the Annunciation.
ANNUNCIATIVE
Pertaining to annunciation; announcing. [R.] Dr. H. More.
ANNUNCIATORY
Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known. [R.]
ANOA
A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to thebuffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.
ANODE
The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly theelectrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way tothe other pole; -- opposed to cathode.
ANODON
A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge.[Written also Anodonta.]
ANODYNE
Serving to assuage pain; soothing.The anodyne draught of oblivion. Burke.
ANODYNOUS
Anodyne.
ANOIL
The anoint with oil. [Obs.] Holinshed.
ANOINT
Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ANOINTER
One who anoints.
ANOINTMENT
The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, anointment. Milton.
ANOLIS
A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidรฆ. Theytake the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and inAmerica are often called chameleons.
ANOMAL
Anything anomalous. [R.]
ANOMALIPED
One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more orless united to the outer and inner ones.
ANOMALISM
An anomaly; a deviation from rule. Hooker.
ANOMALISTICALLY
With irregularity.
ANOMALOFLOROUS
Having anomalous flowers.
ANOMALOUS
Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal;irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.
ANOMALOUSLY
In an anomalous manner.
ANOMALOUSNESS
Quality of being anomalous.
ANOMALY
Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specifictype.
ANOMIA
A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called fromtheir unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated forattachment.
ANOMOPHYLLOUS
Having leaves irregularly placed.
ANOMURAN
One of the Anomura.
ANOMY
Disregard or violation of law. [R.] Glanvill.
ANONA
A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural orderAnonaceรฆ, including the soursop.
ANONACEOUS
Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop,custard apple, etc.
ANONYMITY
The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also,that which anonymous. [R.]He rigorously insisted upon the rights of anonymity. Carlyle.
ANONYMOUS
Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown /or unavowedauthorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet orletter.
ANONYMOUSLY
In an anonymous manner; without a name. Swift.
ANONYMOUSNESS
The state or quality of being anonymous. Coleridge.
ANOPHELES
A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malariaparasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means ofinfecting human beings with malaria. Several species are found in theUnited States. They may be distinguished from the ordinary mosquitoesof the genus Culex by the long slender palpi, nearly equaling thebeak in length, while those of the female Culex are very short. Theyalso assume different positions when resting, Culex usually holdingthe body parallel to the surface on which it rests and keeping thehead and beak bent at an angle, while Anopheles holds the body at anangle with the surface and the head and beak in line with it. Unlessthey become themselves infected by previously biting a subjectaffected with malaria, the insects cannot transmit the disease.
ANOPHYTE
A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usuallyan upward growth and distinct leaves.
ANOPLA
One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.
ANOPLURA
A group of insects which includes the lice.
ANORMAL
Not according to rule; abnormal. [Obs.]
ANORN
To adorn. [Obs.] Bp. Watson.
ANORTHIC
Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.
ANORTHITE
A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in smallglassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is alime feldspar. See Feldspar.
ANORTHOCLASE
A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic. It ischiefly a silicate of sodium, potassium, and aluminium. Sp. gr., 2.57-- 2.60.
ANORTHOPIA
Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent.
ANORTHOSCOPE
An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures bymeans of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures arepainted.
ANORTHOSITE
A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda-lime feldspar, usually labradorite.
ANOSMIA
Loss of the sense of smell.
ANOTHER-GAINES
Of another kind. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
ANOTHER-GATES
Of another sort. [Obs.] "Another-gates adventure." Hudibras.
ANOTHER-GUESS
Of another sort. [Archaic]It used to go in another-guess manner. Arbuthnot.
ANOTTA
See Annotto.
ANOURA
See Anura.
ANOUROUS
See Anurous.
ANSA
A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.
ANSATED
Having a handle. Johnson.
ANSERATED
Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions,etc.; as, an anserated cross.
ANSERES
A Linnรฆan order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbedfeet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order wereincluded the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc.
ANSERIFORMES
A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closelyallied forms.
ANSERINE
Pertaining to the Anseres.
ANSEROUS
Resembling a goose; silly; simple. Sydney Smith.
ANSWER
A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; aconfutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsivedeclaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is theusual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.Bouvier.
ANSWERABLENESS
The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, orcorrespondent.
ANSWERABLY
In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence;suitably.
ANSWERER
One who answers.
ANSWERLESS
Having no answer, or impossible to be answered. Byron.
ANT
A hymenopterous insect of the Linnรฆan genus Formica, which isnow made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.
ANT BIRD
See Ant bird, under Ant, n.
ANT COW
Any aphid from which ants obtain honeydew.
ANT EGG
One of the small white egg-shaped pupรฆ or cocoons of the ant,often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs.
ANT-
See Anti-, prefix.
ANT-BEAR
An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), livingon ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.
ANT-CATTLE
Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for thesake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.
ANT-EATER
One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feedupon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna.
ANT-HILL
A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming theirnests.
ANT-LION
A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand apitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species isMyrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.
ANTA
A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at itstermination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital andbase.
ANTACID
A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.-- a.
ANTACRID
Corrective of acrimony of the humors.
ANTAEAN
Pertaining to Antรฆus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.
ANTAGONISM
Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things orprinciples.
ANTAGONIST
A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor,which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extendsit.
ANTAGONIZE
To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.
ANTAGONY
Contest; opposition; antagonism. [Obs.]Antagony that is between Christ and Belial. Milton.
ANTALGIC
Alleviating pain.-- n.
ANTALKALINE
Of power to counteract alkalies.
ANTAMBULACRAL
Away from the ambulacral region.
ANTANAGOGE
A figure which consists in answering the charge of anadversary, by a counter charge.
ANTAPHRODISIAC
Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.-- n.
ANTAPHRODITIC
An antaphroditic medicine.
ANTAPOPLECTIC
Good against apoplexy.-- n.
ANTARCHISM
Opposition to government in general. [R.]
ANTARCHIST
One who opposes all government. [R.]
ANTARCTIC
Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to thesouthern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to acircle, distant from the pole 23ยบ 28min. Thus we say the antarcticpole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc.
ANTARES
The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion'sHeart.
ANTARTHRITIC
A remedy against gout.
ANTASTHMATIC
Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.-- n.
ANTE
Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante)the game begins.
ANTE MORTEM
Before death; -- generally used adjectivelly; as, an ante-mortem statement; ante-mortem examination.
ANTE-
A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. anti, Goth. and-,anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer,Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.). The Latin ante is generally used inthe sense of before, in regard to position, order, or time, and theGr. opposite, or in the place of.
ANTEACT
A preceding act.
ANTEAL
Being before, or in front. [R.] J. Fleming.
ANTECEDANEOUS
Antecedent; preceding in time. "Capable of antecedaneousproof." Barrow.
ANTECEDE
To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass. Sir M.Hale.
ANTECEDENCE
An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation.
ANTECEDENCY
The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.Fothherby.
ANTECEDENT
The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct,course, history. J. H. Newman.If the troops . . . prove worthy of their antecedents, the victory issurely ours. Gen. G. McClellan.
ANTECEDENTLY
Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as,antecedently to conversion. Barrow.
ANTECHAPEL
The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.Shipley.
ANTECIANS
See Ant.
ANTECOMMUNION
A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for thecommunion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.
ANTECURSOR
A forerunner; a precursor. [Obs.]
ANTEDILUVIAL
Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.
ANTEDILUVIAN
Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time;hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.-- n.
ANTEFACT
Something done before another act. [Obs.]
ANTEFLEXION
A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in suchmanner that its axis is bent upon itself. T. G. Thomas.
ANTELOPE
One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between thedeer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. Thereare many species in Africa and Asia.The antelope and wolf both fierce and fell. Spenser.
ANTELUCAN
Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies ofChristians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in themorning. "Antelucan worship." De Quincey.
ANTEMERIDIAN
Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev.a. m.)
ANTEMETIC
Tending to check vomiting.-- n.
ANTEMOSAIC
Being before the time of Moses.
ANTEMUNDANE
Being or occurring before the creation of the world. Young.
ANTEMURAL
An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in frontgateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.
ANTENATAL
Before birth. Shelley.
ANTENICENE
Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the firstcouncil of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.
ANTENNA
A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to theheads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, andusually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and insome species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near thebasal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and alsofeelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads ofother arthropods and of annelids.
ANTENNAL
Belonging to the antennรฆ. Owen.
ANTENNIFEROUS
Bearing or having antennรฆ.
ANTENNIFORM
Shaped like antennรฆ.
ANTENNULE
A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennรฆ orfeelers of Crustacea.
ANTENUMBER
A number that precedes another. [R.] Bacon.
ANTENUPTIAL
Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement. Kent.
ANTEORBITAL
Same as Antorbital.
ANTEPASCHAL
Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.
ANTEPAST
A foretaste.Antepasts of joy and comforts. Jer. Taylor.
ANTEPENDIUM
The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth;the frontal. Smollett.
ANTEPENULTIMATE
Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.-- n.
ANTEPHIALTIC
Good against nightmare.-- n.
ANTEPILEPTIC
Good against epilepsy.-- n.
ANTEPONE
To put before; to prefer. [Obs.] Bailey.
ANTEPORT
An outer port, gate, or door.
ANTEPORTICO
An outer porch or vestibule.
ANTEPOSITION
The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules,ought to follow it.
ANTEPRANDIAL
Preceding dinner.
ANTEPREDICAMENT
A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments andcategories, such as definitions of common terms. Chambers.
ANTERIORITY
The state of being anterior or preceding in time or insituation; priority. Pope.
ANTERIORLY
In an anterior manner; before.
ANTERO-
A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior,front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.
ANTEROOM
A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waitingroom.
ANTESTATURE
A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks ofearth.
ANTESTOMACH
A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds. Ray.
ANTETEMPLE
The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.
ANTEVERSION
A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such mannerthat its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.
ANTEVERT
To displace by anteversion.
ANTHELION
A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or ringsaround the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on acloud or on an opposite fog bank.
ANTHELIX
Same as Antihelix.
ANTHELMINTIC
Good against intestinal worms.-- An anthelmintic remedy. [Written also anthelminthic.]
ANTHEM
To celebrate with anthems. [Poet.]Sweet birds antheming the morn. Keats.
ANTHEMION
A floral ornament. See Palmette.
ANTHEMIS
Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.
ANTHEMWISE
Alternately. [Obs.] Bacon.
ANTHER
That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizingdust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of theovary.-- An"ther*al, a.
ANTHERIDIUM
The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of acell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- calledalso spermary.-- An`ther*id"i*al, a.
ANTHERIFORM
Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.
ANTHEROGENOUS
Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.
ANTHEROID
Resembling an anther.
ANTHESIS
The period or state of full expansion in a flower. Gray.
ANTHOBIAN
A beetle which feeds on flowers.
ANTHOBRANCHIA
A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills forma wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. SeeNudibranchiata, and Doris.
ANTHOCARPOUS
Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to thepericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, andthe pineapple.
ANTHOCYANIN
Same as Anthokyan.
ANTHODIUM
The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many floretsare gathered into a involucrate head.
ANTHOGRAPHY
A description of flowers.
ANTHOID
Resembling a flower; flowerlike.
ANTHOKYAN
The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin.
ANTHOLITE
A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.
ANTHOLOGICAL
Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts fromdifferent authors, especially the poets.He published a geographical and anthological description of allempires and kingdoms . . . in this terrestrial globe. Wood.
ANTHOLOGIST
One who compiles an anthology.
ANTHOLOGY
A service book containing a selection of pieces for thefestival services.
ANTHOMANIA
A extravagant fondness for flowers. [R.]
ANTHOPHAGOUS
Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.
ANTHOPHILOUS
Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among,flowers.
ANTHOPHORE
The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx andcorolla, as in the Pink family. Gray.
ANTHOPHOROUS
Flower bearing; supporting the flower.
ANTHOPHYLLITE
A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clovebrown color.-- An`tho*phyl*lit"ic, a.
ANTHORISM
A description or definition contrary to that which is given bythe adverse party. [R.]
ANTHOTAXY
The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of therelative position of flowers; inflorescence.
ANTHOZOA
The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and seaanemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria,Actinaria, and Madreporaria.
ANTHOZOAN
Pertaining to the Anthozoa.-- n.
ANTHOZOIC
Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.
ANTHRACENE
A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompaniesnaphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Itschief use is in the artificial production of alizarin. [Written alsoanthracin.]
ANTHRACENE OIL
A heavy green oil (partially solidifying on cooling), whichdistills over from coal tar at a temperature above 270ยบ. It is theprincipal source of anthracene.
ANTHRACIC
Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.
ANTHRACIFEROUS
Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.
ANTHRACITE
A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster,differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, inconsequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. Thepurer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glancecoal and blind coal.
ANTHRACITIC
Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthraciticformations.
ANTHRACNOSE
Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic speciesof the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon,cotton, and other plants. In the case of the grape, brown concavespots are formed on the stem and fruit, and the disease is calledbird's-eye rot.
ANTHRACOID
Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, ananthracoid microbe.
ANTHRACOMANCY
Divination by inspecting a burning coal.
ANTHRACOMETER
An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in amixture.
ANTHRACOMETRIC
Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.
ANTHRACONITE
A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell whenrubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.
ANTHRACOSIS
A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to theinhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner'sphthisis.
ANTHRAQUINONE
A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellowneedles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene.
ANTHRAX
A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis),resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]
ANTHRAX VACCINE
A fluid vaccine obtained by growing a bacterium (Bacteriumanthracis) in beef broth. It is used to immunize animals, esp.cattle.
ANTHRENUS
A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larvalstate, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common"museum pest" is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariรฆ. Thelarvรฆ are commonly confounded with moths.
ANTHROPIDAE
The group that includes man only.
ANTHROPOCENTRIC
Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied totheories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.Draper.
ANTHROPOGENIC
Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.
ANTHROPOGENY
The science or study of human generation, or the origin anddevelopment of man.
ANTHROPOGEOGRAPHY
The science of the human species as to geographicaldistribution and environment. Broadly, it includes industrial,commercial, and political geography, and that part of ethnology whichdeals with distribution and physical environment. --An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*pher (#), n. -- An`thro*po*ge`o*graph"ic*al (#),a.
ANTHROPOGLOT
An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as theparrot.
ANTHROPOGRAPHY
That branch of anthropology which treats of the actualdistribution of the human race in its different divisions, asdistinguished by physical character, language, institutions, andcustoms, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treatshistorically of the origin and filiation of races and nations. P.Cyc.
ANTHROPOID
Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as theourang or gorilla.-- n.
ANTHROPOIDAL
Anthropoid.
ANTHROPOIDEA
The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, andman.
ANTHROPOLATRY
Man worship.
ANTHROPOLITE
A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.
ANTHROPOLOGIST
One who is versed in anthropology.
ANTHROPOMANCY
Divination by the entrails of human being.
ANTHROPOMETRY
Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings,especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations,etc. Dunglison.
ANTHROPOMORPHA
The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.
ANTHROPOMORPHIC
Of or pertaining to anthromorphism. Hadley.-- An`thro*po*mor"phic*al*ly, adv.
ANTHROPOMORPHIST
One who attributes the human form or other human attributes tothe Deity or to anything not human.
ANTHROPOMORPHITE
One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deityor to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect ofancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc.Tillotson.
ANTHROPOMORPHITIC
to anthropomorphism. Kitto.
ANTHROPOMORPHITISM
Anthropomorphism. Wordsworth.
ANTHROPOMORPHIZE
To attribute a human form or personality to.You may see imaginative children every day anthropomorphizing.Lowell.
ANTHROPOMORPHOLOGY
The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.
ANTHROPOMORPHOSIS
Transformation into the form of a human being.
ANTHROPOMORPHOUS
Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, ananthromorphous plant. "Anthromorphous apes." Darwin.
ANTHROPOPATHITE
One who ascribes human feelings to deity.
ANTHROPOPHAGI
Man eaters; cannibals. Shak.
ANTHROPOPHAGINIAN
One who east human flesh. [Ludicrous] Shak.
ANTHROPOPHAGITE
A cannibal. W. Taylor.
ANTHROPOPHAGOUS
Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.
ANTHROPOPHAGY
The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.
ANTHROPOPHUISM
Human nature. [R.] Gladstone.
ANTHROPOSCOPY
The art of discovering or judging of a man's character,passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features. [R.]
ANTHROPOSOPHY
Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.
ANTHROPOTOMICAL
Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.
ANTHROPOTOMIST
One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.
ANTHROPOTOMY
The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy. Owen.
ANTHYPNOTIC
See Antihypnotic.
ANTHYPOCHONDRIAC
See Antihypochondriac.
ANTHYSTERIC
See Antihysteric.
ANTI
A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, orin place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It isoften shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic.
ANTI-AMERICAN
Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to thegenius of American institutions. Marshall.
ANTI-FEDERALIST
One of party opposed to a federative government; -- appliedparticularly to the party which opposed the adoption of theconstitution of the United States. Pickering.
ANTI-GALLICAN
Opposed to what is Gallic or French.
ANTI-IMPERIALISM
Opposition to imperialism; -- applied specif., in the UnitedStates, after the Spanish-American war (1898), to the attitude orprinciples of those opposing territorial expansion; in England, ofthose, often called Little Englanders, opposing the extension of theempire and the closer relation of its parts, esp. in matters ofcommerce and imperial defense. -- An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ist, n. -- An`ti-im*pe`ri*al*is"tic (#), a.
ANTI-SEMITISM
Opposition to, or hatred of, Semites, esp. Jews. -- An`ti-Sem"ite (#), n. -- An`ti-Sem*it"ic (#), a.
ANTI-TRADE
A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to thetrade wind.
ANTIAE
The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of somebirds; the frontal points.
ANTIALBUMID
A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion.It is convertible into antipeptone.
ANTIALBUMOSE
See Albumose.
ANTIAPHRODISIAC
Same as Antaphrodisiac.
ANTIAPOPLECTIC
Same as Antapoplectic.
ANTIAR
A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of onespecies of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).
ANTIARIN
A poisonous principle obtained from antiar. Watts.
ANTIASTHMATIC
Same as Antasthmatic.
ANTIATTRITION
Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compoundlubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, withsome greasy material; antifriction grease.
ANTIBACCHIUS
A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the lastshort.
ANTIBILLOUS
Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relievebiliousness.
ANTIBODY
Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act inantagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteriaproducing the toxins. Normal blood serum apparently containsvariousantibodies, and the introduction of toxins or of foreign cellsalso results in the development of their specific antibodies.
ANTIBRACHIAL
Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.
ANTIBRACHIUM
That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus;the forearm.
ANTIBROMIC
An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.
ANTIBUBONIC
Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum,obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilizedbouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.
ANTIBURGHER
One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improperto take the Burgess oath.
ANTIC
"Lords of antic fame." Phaer.
ANTIC-MASK
An antimask. B. Jonson.
ANTICATARRHAL
Efficacious against catarrh.-- n.
ANTICATHODE
The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it thecathode rays impinge.
ANTICAUSODIC
Same as Anticausotic.
ANTICAUSOTIC
Good against an inflammatory fever.-- n.
ANTICHAMBER
See Antechamber.
ANTICHLOR
Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used inremoving the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs afterbleaching.
ANTICHRIST
A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.: A great antagonist,person or power, expected to precede Christ's second coming.
ANTICHRISTIAN
Opposed to the Christian religion.
ANTICHRISTIANLY
In an antichristian manner.
ANTICHRONICAL
Deviating from the proper order of time.-- An`ti*chron"ic*al*ly, adv.
ANTICHRONISM
Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism. [R.]Selden.
ANTICHTHON
Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres. Whewell.
ANTICIPANT
Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.Wakening guilt, anticipant of hell. Southey.
ANTICIPATION
The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or duringthe chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.
ANTICIPATIVE
Anticipating, or containing anticipation. "Anticipative of thefeast to come." Cary.-- An*tic"i*pa*tive*ly, adv.
ANTICIPATOR
One who anticipates.
ANTICIPATORY
Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation. Owen.Here is an anticipatory glance of what was to be. J. C. Shairp.
ANTICIVIC
Opposed to citizenship.
ANTICIVISM
Opposition to the body politic of citizens. [Obs.] Carlyle.
ANTICLASTIC
Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinallyin one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as thesurface of a saddle.
ANTICLIMAX
A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less importantand striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces aridiculous effect. Example:Next comes Dalhousie, the great god of war,Lieutenant-colonel to the Earl ANTICLINALAn`ti*cli"nal, a. Etym: [Pref. anti- + Gr.
ANTICLINAL
The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in oppositedirections.
ANTICLINE
A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides ofan axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal.
ANTICLINORIUM
The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting froma geanticlinal.
ANTICLY
Oddly; grotesquely.
ANTICNESS
The quality of being antic. Ford.
ANTICOHERER
A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit ofsilver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus forreading wireless signals. The electric waves falling on thiscontrivance increase its resistance several times. The anticoherercan be used in conjunction with a telephone.
ANTICONSTITUTIONAL
Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.
ANTICONTAGIOUS
Opposing or destroying contagion.
ANTICONVULSIVE
Good against convulsions. J. Floyer.
ANTICOR
A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, justopposite the heart.
ANTICOUS
Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrseanthers of the water lily.
ANTICYCLONE
A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regardsdirection of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, tothat of a cyclone.-- An`ti*cy*clon"ic, a.-- An`ti*cy*clon"ic*al*ly, adv.
ANTIDIPHTHERITIC
Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli.-- n.
ANTIDOTAL
Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract theeffects of poison. Sir T. Browne.-- An"ti*do`tal*ly, adv.
ANTIDOTARY
Antidotal.-- n. Antidote; also, a book of antidotes.
ANTIDOTICAL
Serving as an antidote.-- An`ti*dot"ic*al*ly, adv.
ANTIDROMOUS
Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on astem.
ANTIDYSENTERIC
Good against dysentery.-- n.
ANTIEMETIC
Same as Antemetic.
ANTIEPHIALTIC
Same as Antephialtic.
ANTIEPILEPTIC
Same as Antepileptic.
ANTIFEBRILE
Febrifuge.
ANTIFEBRINE
Acetanilide.
ANTIFRICTION
Something to lessea. Tending to lessen friction.
ANTIGALASTIC
Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.
ANTIGRAPH
A copy or transcript.
ANTIGUGGLER
A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of abottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment orcausing a gurgling noise.
ANTIHELIX
The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or infront of the helix. See Ear.
ANTIHEMORRHAGIC
Tending to stop hemorrhage.-- n.
ANTIHYDROPHOBIC
Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia.-- n.
ANTIHYDROPIC
Good against dropsy.-- n.
ANTIHYPNOTIC
Tending to prevent sleep.-- n.
ANTIHYPOCHONDRIAC
Counteractive of hypochondria.-- n.
ANTIHYSTERIC
Counteracting hysteria.-- n.
ANTIICTERIC
Good against jaundice.-- n.
ANTILEGOMENA
Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time notuniversally received, but which are now considered canonical. Theseare the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistles of James and Jude, thesecond Epistle of Peter, the second and third Epistles of John, andthe Revelation. The undisputed books are called the Homologoumena.
ANTILIBRATION
A balancing; equipoise. [R.] De Quincey.
ANTILITHIC
Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or todestroy them when formed.-- n.
ANTILOGARITHM
The number corresponding to a logarithm. The word has beensometimes, though rarely, used to denote the complement of a givenlogarithm; also the logarithmic cosine corresponding to a givenlogarithmic sine.-- An`ti*log`a*rith"mic, a.
ANTILOGOUS
Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous.Antilogous pole (Eccl.), that pole of a crystal which becomesnegatively electrified when heated.
ANTILOGY
A contradiction between any words or passages in an author. SirW. Hamilton.
ANTILOIMIC
A remedy against the plague. Brande & C.
ANTILOPINE
Of or relating to the antelope.
ANTILOQUIST
A contradicter. [Obs.]
ANTILOQUY
Contradiction. [Obs.]
ANTILYSSIC
Antihydrophobic.
ANTIMACASSAR
A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., toprevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from thehair.
ANTIMAGISTRICAL
Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates. [Obs.]South.
ANTIMALARIAL
Good against malaria.
ANTIMASK
A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts ofa serious mask. [Written also anue.] Bacon.
ANTIMASON
One opposed to Freemasonry.-- An`ti*ma*son"ic, a.
ANTIMASONRY
Opposition to Freemasonry.
ANTIMEPHITIC
Good against mephitic or deletplwious gases.-- n.
ANTIMERE
One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; oneof any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants.
ANTIMETABOLE
A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated intransposed order.
ANTIMETATHESIS
An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverseorder.
ANTIMETER
A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.[Obs.]
ANTIMONARCHIST
An enemy to monarchial government.
ANTIMONATE
A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical.[Written also antimoniate.]
ANTIMONIAL
Of or pertaining to antimony.-- n. (Med.)
ANTIMONIATED
Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar.
ANTIMONIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of thosecompounds of antimony in which this element has its highestequivalence; as, antimonic acid.
ANTIMONIOUS
Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of thosecompounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence nextlower than the highest; as, antimonious acid.
ANTIMONITE
A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.
ANTIMONIURETED
Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniuretedhydrogen. [Written also antimoniuretted.]
ANTIMONSOON
The upper, contrary-moving current of the atmosphere over amonsoon.
ANTIMONY
An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearanceand physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging tothe class of nonmetallic substances. Atomic weight, 120. Symbol, Sb.
ANTINATIONAL
Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a nationalgovernment.
ANTINEPHRITIC
Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys.-- n.
ANTINOMIAN
Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrinethat the moral law is obligatory.
ANTINOMIANISM
The tenets or practice of Antinomians. South.
ANTINOMIST
An Antinomian. [R.] Bp. Sanderson.
ANTINOMY
A contradiction or incompatibility of thought or language; --in the Kantian philosophy, such a contradiction as arises from theattempt to apply to the ideas of the reason, relations or attributeswhich are appropriate only to the facts or the concepts ofexperience.
ANTIODONTALGIC
Efficacious in curing toothache.-- n.
ANTIORGASTIC
Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.
ANTIPAPAL
Opposed to the pope or to popery. Milton.
ANTIPARALLEL
Running in a contrary direction. Hammond.
ANTIPARALLELS
Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respectopposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes.
ANTIPARALYTIC
Good against paralysis.-- n.
ANTIPARALYTICAL
Antiparalytic.
ANTIPASCH
The Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.
ANTIPATHIC
Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.
ANTIPATHIST
One who has an antipathy. [R.] "Antipathist of light."Coleridge.
ANTIPATHIZE
To feel or show antipathy. [R.]
ANTIPATHOUS
Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic. [Obs.]Beau. & Fl.
ANTIPEPTONE
A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing fromhemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action ofpancreatic juice.
ANTIPERIODIC
A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return ofperiodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittentfevers.
ANTIPERISTALTIC
Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to aninverted action of the intestinal tube.
ANTIPERISTASIS
Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength;resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of anopposite principle or quality.
ANTIPERISTATIC
Pertaining to antiperistasis.
ANTIPETALOUS
Standing before a petal, as a stamen.
ANTIPHARMIC
Antidotal; alexipharmic.
ANTIPHLOGISTIAN
An opposer of the theory of phlogiston.
ANTIPHLOGISTIC
Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.
ANTIPHONAL
Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sungalternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs. Wheatly.-- An*tiph"o*nal*ly, adv.
ANTIPHONARY
A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in whichthe antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, arecontained.
ANTIPHONE
The response which one side of the choir makes to the other ina chant; alternate chanting or signing.
ANTIPHONER
A book of antiphons. Chaucer.
ANTIPHONIC
Antiphonal.
ANTIPHRASIS
The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning;as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.
ANTIPHTHISIC
Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption.-- n.
ANTIPHYSICAL
Contrary to nature; unnatural.
ANTIPLASTIC
Preventing or checking the process of healing, or granulation.
ANTIPODAGRIC
Good against gout.-- n.
ANTIPODE
One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite.In tale or history your beggar is ever the just antipode to yourking. Lamb.
ANTIPODEAN
Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world;antipodal.
ANTIPOLE
The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed. Geo. Eliot.
ANTIPOPE
One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to thepope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided atAvignon during the Great Schism.
ANTIPSORIC
Of use in curing the itch.-- n.
ANTIPTOSIS
The putting of one case for another.
ANTIPYIC
Checking or preventing suppuration.-- n.
ANTIPYRESIS
The condition or state of being free from fever.
ANTIPYRETIC
Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever.-- n.
ANTIPYRINE
An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abatingfever.
ANTIPYROTIC
Good against burns or pyrosis.-- n.
ANTIQUARIAN
Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarianliterature.
ANTIQUARIANISM
Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities.Warburton.
ANTIQUARIANIZE
To act the part of an antiquary. [Colloq.]
ANTIQUARY
Pertaining to antiquity. [R.] "Instructed by the antiquarytimes." Shak.
ANTIQUATE
To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in sucha degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.Christianity might reasonably introduce new laws, and antiquate orabrogate old one. Sir M. Hale.
ANTIQUATED
Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned;as, an antiquated law. "Antiquated words." Dryden.Old Janet, for so he understood his antiquated attendant wasdenominated. Sir W. Scott.
ANTIQUATEDNESS
Quality of being antiquated.
ANTIQUATENESS
Antiquatedness. [Obs.]
ANTIQUATION
The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated.Beaumont.
ANTIQUE
In general, anything very old; but in a more limited sense, arelic or object of ancient art; collectively, the antique, theremains of ancient art, as busts, statues, paintings, and vases.Misshapen monuments and maimed antiques. Byron.
ANTIQUELY
In an antique manner.
ANTIQUENESS
The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient originand workmanship.We may discover something venerable in the antiqueness of the work.Addison.
ANTIQUIST
An antiquary; a collector of antiques. [R.] Pinkerton.
ANTIQUITARIAN
An admirer of antiquity.
ANTIRACHITIC
Good against the rickets.
ANTIRENTER
One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons fromthe settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York.-- An`ti*rent"ism, n.
ANTISABBATARIAN
One of a sect which opposes the observance of the ChristianSabbath.
ANTISACERDOTAL
Hostile to priests or the priesthood. Waterland.
ANTISCORBUTIC
Counteracting scurvy.-- n.
ANTISCORBUTICAL
Antiscorbutic.
ANTISCRIPTURAL
Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.
ANTISEPALOUS
Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf.
ANTISEPSIS
Prevention of sepsis by excluding or destroying microorganisms.
ANTISEPTIC
A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, ordestroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt,carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona.
ANTISEPTICALLY
By means of antiseptics.
ANTISIALAGOGUE
Checking the flow of saliva.
ANTISLAVERY
Opposed to slavery.-- n.
ANTISOCIAL
Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse tosociety, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles.
ANTISOCIALIST
One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists orsocialism.
ANTISOLAR
Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180distant from the sun.
ANTISPASMODIC
Good against spasms.-- n.
ANTISPAST
A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and thesecond and third long.
ANTISPASTIC
An antispastic agent.
ANTISPLENETIC
Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen.-- n.
ANTISTROPHIC
Of or pertaining to an antistrophe.
ANTISTROPHON
An argument retorted on an opponent. Milton.
ANTISTRUMATIC
Antistrumous.-- n.
ANTISTRUMOUS
Good against scrofulous disorders. Johnson. Wiseman.
ANTISYPHILITIC
Efficacious against syphilis.-- n.
ANTITHEISM
The doctrine of antitheists.-- An`ti*the*is"tic, a.
ANTITHEIST
A disbeliever in the existence of God.
ANTITHESIS
An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring inthe same sentence; as, "The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robshimself." "He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed atthe Queen."
ANTITHET
An antithetic or contrasted statement. Bacon.
ANTITHETICALLY
By way antithesis.
ANTITRAGUS
A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha ofthe external ear, opposite the tragus. See Ear.
ANTITROCHANTER
An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which thegreat trochanter of the femur plays.
ANTITYPAL
Antitypical. [R.]
ANTITYPE
That of which the type pattern or representation; that which isrepresented by the type or symbol.
ANTITYPICAL
Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type.-- An`ti*typ"ic*al*ly, adv.
ANTITYPOUS
Resisting blows; hard. [Obs.] Cudworth.
ANTITYPY
Opposition or resistance of matter to force. [R.] Sir W.Hamilton.
ANTIVACCINATION
Opposition to vaccination. London Times.
ANTIVACCINATIONIST
An antivaccinist.
ANTIVACCINIST
One opposed to vaccination.
ANTIVARIOLOUS
Preventing the contagion of smallpox.
ANTIVENEREAL
Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic.
ANTIVENIN
The serum of blood rendered antitoxic to a venom by repeatedinjections of small doses of the venom.
ANTIVIVISECTION
Opposition to vivisection.
ANTIVIVISECTIONIST
One opposed to vivisection
ANTIZYMIC
Preventing fermentation.
ANTIZYMOTIC
Preventing fermentation or decomposition.-- n.
ANTLER
The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervineanimal, as of a stag.Huge stags with sixteen antlers. Macaulay.
ANTLERED
Furnished with antlers.The antlered stag. Cowper.
ANTLIA
The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. SeeLepidoptera.
ANTONOMASIA
The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, orthe like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when hismajesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say,the philosopher; or, conversely, the use of a proper name instead ofan appellative, as when a wise man is called a Solomon, or an eminentorator a Cicero.
ANTONOMASTIC
Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.-- An`to*no*mas"tic*al*ly, adv.
ANTONOMASY
Antonomasia.
ANTONYM
A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as acorrelative of synonym. [R.] C. J. Smith.
ANTORBITAL
Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of theorbit.-- n.
ANTORGASTIC
See Antiorgastic.
ANTOZONE
A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, butnow known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparentlyantagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen.
ANTRAL
Relating to an antrum.
ANTRE
A cavern. [Obs.] Shak.
ANTRORSE
Forward or upward in direction. Gray.
ANTROVERT
To bend forward. [R.] Owen.
ANTRUM
A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus. Huxley.
ANTRUSTION
A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in theirenterprises.
ANUBIS
An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits,represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox.
ANURA
One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence ofa tail, as the frogs and toads. [Written also anoura.]
ANUROUS
Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Also writtenanourous.]
ANURY
Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.
ANUS
The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through whichthe excrements are expelled.
ANVIL
the incus. See Incus. To be on the anvil, to be in a state ofdiscussion, formation, or preparation, as when a scheme or measure isforming, but not matured. Swift.
ANXIETUDE
The state of being anxious; anxiety. [R.]
ANXIETY
A state of restlessness and agitation, often with generalindisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at theepigastrium. Dunglison.
ANXIOUSLY
In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously.
ANXIOUSNESS
The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety.
ANY
To any extent; in any degree; at all.You are not to go loose any longer. Shak.Before you go any farther. Steele.
ANYHOW
In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.Anyhow, it must be acknowledged to be not a simple selforiginatederror. J. H. Newman.Anyhow, the languages of the two nations were closely allied. E. A.Freeman.
ANYONE
One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody.
ANYTHING
In any measure; anywise; at all.Mine old good will and hearty affection towards you is not . . .anything at all quailed. Robynson (More's Utopia).
ANYTHINGARIAN
One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.
ANYWHERE
In any place. Udall.
ANYWHITHER
To or towards any place. [Archaic] De Foe.
ANYWISE
In any wise or way; at all. "Anywise essential." Burke.
AONIAN
Pertaining to Aonia, Boeotia, or to the Muses, who weresupposed to dwell there. Aonian fount, the fountain of Aganippe, atthe foot of Mount Helicon, not far from Thebes, and sacred to theMuses.
AORIST
A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action ascompleted in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, whollyindeterminate.
AORISTIC
Indefinite; pertaining to the aorist tense.
AORTA
The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to allparts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterialsystem.
AORTIC
Of or pertaining to the aorta.
AORTITIS
Inflammation of the aorta.
AOUDAD
An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus)having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, thechamois of the Old Testament.
APACE
With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.His dewy locks did drop with brine apace. Spenser.A visible triumph of the gospel drawapace. I. Taylor.
APACHES
A group of nomadic North American Indians including severaltribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.
APAGOGE
An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing theimpossibility or absurdity of the contrary.
APAID
Paid; pleased. [Obs.] Chaucer.
APAIR
To impair or become impaired; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
APALACHIAN
See Appalachian.
APANAGE
Same as Appanage.
APANTHROPY
An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.
APAREJO
A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service andamong the Spanish Americans. It is made of leather stuffed with hay,moss, or the like.
APARITHMESIS
Enumeration of parts or particulars.
APARTMENT HOUSE
A building comprising a number of suites designed for separatehousekeeping tenements, but having conveniences, such as heat, light,elevator service, etc., furnished in common; -- often distinguishedin the United States from a flat house.
APARTNESS
The quality of standing apart.
APASTRON
That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller staris farthest from its primary.
APATHETICALLY
In an apathetic manner.
APATHIST
One who is destitute of feeling.
APATHISTICAL
Apathetic; une motional. [R.]
APATHY
Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement;dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied tothe mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference,incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertionby pleasure, pain, or passion. "The apathy of despair." Macaulay.A certain apathy or sluggishness in his nature which led him . . . toleave events to take their own course. Prescott.According to the Stoics, apathy meant the extinction of the passionsby the ascendency of reason. Fleming.
APATITE
Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sidedprisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.
APAUME
See Appaum.
APE
A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadรฆ, having teethof the same number and form as in man, having teeth of the samenumber and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheekpouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates,and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. Thehigher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often calledanthropoid apes or man apes.
APEAK
In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable hasbeen sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship isthem said to be hove apeak. [Spelt also apeek.]
APEHOOD
The state of being an ape.
APELLOUS
Destitute of skin. Brande & C.
APENNINE
Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain ofmountains extending through Italy.
APEPSY
Defective digestion, indigestion. Coxe.
APER
One who apes.
APERCU
A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation soobtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative ratherthan analytic.
APEREA
The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea).
APERIENT
Gently opening the bowels; laxative.-- n.
APERITIVE
Serving to open; aperient. Harvey.
APERT
Open; ev [Archaic] Fotherby.
APERTION
The act of opening; an opening; an aperture. [Archaic] Wiseman.
APERTLY
Openly; clearly. [Archaic]
APERTNESS
Openness; frankness. [Archaic]
APERTURE
The diameter of the exposed part of the object glass of atelescope or other optical instrument; as, a telescope of four-inchaperture.
APETALOUS
Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther].
APETALOUSNESS
The state of being apetalous.
APEX
The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface. [U.S.] Apex ofthe earth's motion (Astron.), that point of the heavens toward whichthe earth is moving in its orbit.
APHAERESIS
Same as Apheresis.
APHAKIA
An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of thecrystalline lens, as after operations for cataract. The remedy is theuse of powerful convex lenses. Dunglison.
APHAKIAL
Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes.
APHANIPTERA
A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. SeeFlea.
APHANIPTEROUS
Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.
APHANITE
A very compact, dark-colored
APHANITIC
Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.
APHASIC
Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless.
APHELION
That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distantfrom the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion.
APHELIOTROPIC
Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.
APHELIOTROPISM
The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certainplants.
APHEMIA
Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power ofwriting; -- a disorder of cerebral origin.
APHERESIS
The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of aword; e. g., cute for acute.
APHESIS
The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of aword; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire.New Eng. Dict.
APHETIC
Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginningof a word; as, an aphetic word or form.-- A*phet"ic*al*ly, adv. New Eng. Dict.
APHETISM
An aphetized form of a word. New Eng. Dict.
APHETIZE
To shorten by aphesis.These words . . . have been aphetized. New Eng. Dict.
APHID
One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.
APHIDES
See Aphis.
APHIDIAN
Of or pertaining to the family Aphidรฆ.-- n.
APHIDIVOROUS
Devouring aphides; aphidophagous.
APHIDOPHAGOUS
Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of thefamily Coccinellidรฆ.
APHILANTHROPY
Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy. Coxe.
APHIS
A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and familyAphidรฆ, including numerous species known as plant lice and greenflies.
APHIS LION
The larva of the lacewinged flies (Chrysopa), which feedsvoraciously upon aphids. The name is also applied to the larvรฆ of theladybugs (Coccinella).
APHLOGISTIC
Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire iskept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.
APHORISM
A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; asharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than topractical matters.The first aphorism of Hippocrates is, "Life is short, and the art islong." Fleming.
APHORISMER
A dealer in aphorisms. [Used in derogation or contempt.]Milton.
APHORIST
A writer or utterer of aphorisms.
APHORISTICALLY
In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily.
APHORIZE
To make aphorisms.
APHOTIC
Without light.
APHOTIC REGION
A depth of water so great that only those organisms can existthat do not assimilate.
APHRITE
See under Calcite.
APHRODISIAC
That which (as a drug, or some kinds of food) excites tovenery.
APHRODISIAN
Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus. "Aphrodisian dames" [that is,courtesans]. C. Reade.
APHRODITE
The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of theRomans.
APHRODITIC
Venereal. [R.] Dunglison.
APHTHAE
Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on thelips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonlycharacteristic of thrush.
APHTHOID
Of the nature of aphthรฆ; resembling thrush.
APHTHONG
A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling aword, but in the pronunciation having no sound.-- Aph*thon"gal, a.
APHTHOUS
Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthรฆ; characterized by aphtรฆ;as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.
APHYLLOUS
Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceousplants, etc.
APIACEOUS
Umbelliferous.
APIAN
Belonging to bees.
APIARIAN
Of or relating to bees.
APIARIST
One who keeps an apiary.
APIARY
A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; abeehouse.
APICAL
At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit. Gray.
APICES
See Apex.
APICIAN
Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence appliedto whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery.H. Rogers.
APICULAR
Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.
APICULTURE
Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.
APIECE
Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share ofeach; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece. "Fined . . . athousand pounds apiece." Hume.
APIECES
In pieces or to pieces. [Obs.] "Being torn apieces." Shak.
APIKED
Trimmed. [Obs.]Full fresh and new here gear apiked was. Chaucer.
APIOL
An oily liquid derived from parsley.
APIOLOGIST
A student of bees. [R.] Emerson.
APIOLOGY
The scientific or systematic study of honey bees.
APIS
A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including thecommon honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. SeeHoneybee.
APISH
Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servilemanner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected;trifling.The apish gallantry of a fantastic boy. Sir W. Scott.
APISHLY
In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly.
APISHNESS
The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery.
APITPAT
With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat. Congreve.
APLACENTAL
Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta.
APLACENTATA
Mammals which have no placenta.
APLACOPHORA
A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or coveredwith slender spines or setรฆ, but is without shelly plates.
APLANATIC
Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combinedas to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens. Aplanatic focusof a lens (Opt.), the point or focus from which rays diverging passthe lens without spherical aberration. In certain forms of lensesthere are two such foci; and it is by taking advantage of this factthat the best aplanatic object glasses of microscopes areconstructed.
APLANATISM
Freedom from spherical aberration.
APLANOGAMETE
A nonmotile gamete, found in certain lower algรฆ.
APLASIA
Incomplete or faulty development.
APLASTIC
Not plastic or easily molded.
APLOMB
Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.
APLOTOMY
Simple incision. Dunglison.
APLUSTRE
An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usuallyspreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather. Audsley.
APLYSIA
A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; thesea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purpleliquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. inAppendix.
APNEUMATIC
Devoid of air; free from air; as, an apneumatic lung; also,effected by or with exclusion of air; as, an apneumatic operation.
APNEUMONA
An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratoryorgans are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.
APO
A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from,away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off),apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous.
APOCALYPSE
Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to theRevelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a propheticrevelation. Apocolyptic number, the number 666, mentioned in Rev.xiii. 18. It has been variously interpreted.
APOCALYPTICALLY
By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.
APOCARPOUS
Either entirely of partially separate, as the carpels of acompound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous. Lindley.
APOCHROMATIC
Free from chromatic and spherical aberration; -- said esp. of alens in which rays of three or more colors are brought to the samefocus, the degree of achromatism thus obtained being more completethan where two rays only are thus focused, as in the ordinaryachromatic objective. --Ap`o*chro"ma*tism (#), n.
APOCODEINE
An alkaloid, , prepared from codeine. In its effects itresembles apomorphine.
APOCOPATE
To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the lastletter, syllable, or part of a word.
APOCOPATION
Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated.
APOCOPE
A cutting off; abscission.
APOCRUSTIC
Astringent and repellent.-- n.
APOCRYPHALIST
One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha. [R.]
APOCRYPHALLY
In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably.
APOCRYPHALNESS
The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness ofcredit or genuineness.
APOCYNIN
A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynumcannabinum).
APODAN
Apodal.
APODEME
One of the processes of the shell which project inwards andunite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea.
APODICTIC
Same as Apodeictic.
APODIXIS
Full demonstration.
APODOSIS
The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence,expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis orclause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, "Though heslay me, yet will I trust in him," the former clause is the protasis,and the latter the apodosis.
APODOUS
Apodal; apod.
APODYTERIUM
The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra,where one stripped; a dressing room.
APOGAIC
Apogean.
APOGAMIC
Relating to apogamy.
APOGAMY
The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule oroรถspore. De Bary.
APOGEAL
Apogean.
APOGEAN
Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, whichoccur when the moon has passed her apogee.
APOGEE
That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatestdistance from the earth.
APOGEOTROPIC
Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.
APOGEOTROPISM
The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts.
APOGRAPH
A copy or transcript. Blount.
APOHYAL
Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone.
APOISE
Balanced.
APOLAR
Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly tocertain nerve cells.
APOLAUSTIC
Devoted to enjoyment.
APOLLINARIAN
In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games.
APOLLINARIS WATER
An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a tablebeverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn.
APOLLO
A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of lightand day (the "sun god"), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, andmusic, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace andbeauty; -- called also Phรฉbus. The Apollo Belvedere, a celebratedstatue of Apollo in the Belvedere gallery of the Vatican palace atRome, esteemed of the noblest representations of the human frame.
APOLLYON
The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel ofthe bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon.
APOLOGER
A teller of apologues. [Obs.]
APOLOGETICALLY
By way of apology.
APOLOGETICS
That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, andsets forth the evidence of their divine authority.
APOLOGIST
One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defenseof a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues indefense of Christianity.
APOLOGIZE
To defend. [Obs.]The Christians . . . were apologized by Plinie. Dr. G. Benson.
APOLOGIZER
One who makes an apology; an apologist.
APOLOGUE
A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to conveysome moral truth; a moral fable.
APOLOGY
To offer an apology. [Obs.]For which he can not well apology. J. Webster.
APOMECOMETER
An instrument for measuring the height of objects. Knight.
APOMECOMETRY
The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off. [Obs. orR.]
APONEUROSIS
Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciรฆ whichcover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles.They often differ from tendons only in being flat and thin. SeeFascia.
APONEUROTIC
Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis.
APONEUROTOMY
Dissection of aponeuroses.
APOPEMPTIC
Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplecticsongs or hymns.
APOPHASIS
A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice ofa favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effectdesired. [For example, see Mark Antony's oration. Shak., JuliusCรฆsar, iii. 2.]
APOPHLEGMATIC
Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouthor nostrils.-- n.
APOPHLEGMATISM
The action of apophlegmatics.
APOPHLEGMATIZANT
An apophlegmatic. [Obs.]
APOPHTHEGM
See Apothegm.
APOPHYGE
The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of theshaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; --called also the scape. Parker.
APOPHYLLITE
A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in squareprisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. Itis a hydrous silicate of calcium and potassium.
APOPHYSIS
A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.
APOPLECTIC
One liable to, or affected with, apoplexy.
APOPLEX
Apoplexy. [Obs.] Dryden.
APOPLEXED
Affected with apoplexy. [Obs.] Shak.
APOPLEXY
Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, andvoluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.
APORETICAL
Doubting; skeptical. [Obs.] Cudworth.
APORIA
A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss whatcourse to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc.
APOROSA
A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposedto Perforata.
APOROSE
Without pores.
APORT
On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.
APOSEMATIC
Having or designating conspicuous or warning colors orstructures indicative of special means of defense against enemies, asin the skunk.
APOSIOPESIS
A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, asif unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, "I declareto you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here."
APOSITIC
Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger.
APOSTASY
An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a totaldesertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp.,the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy fromChristianity.
APOSTATE
One who, after having received sacred orders, renounces hisclerical profession.
APOSTATIC
Apostatical. [R.]
APOSTATICAL
Apostate.An heretical and apostatical church. Bp. Hall.
APOSTATIZE
To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; toforsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the partyto which one has previously adhered.He apostatized from his old faith in facts, took to believing inCarlyle.
APOSTEMATE
To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus. Wiseman.
APOSTEMATION
The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.[Written corruptly imposthumation.] Wiseman.
APOSTEMATOUS
Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme.
APOSTEME
An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter. [Writtencorruptly imposthume.]
APOSTLE
A brief letter dimissory sent by a court appealed from to thesuperior court, stating the case, etc.; a paper sent up on appeals inthe admiralty courts. Wharton. Burrill. Apostles' creed, a creed ofunknown origin, which was formerly ascribed to the apostles. Itcertainly dates back to the beginning of the sixth century, and someassert that it can be found in the writings of Ambrose in the fourthcentury.-- Apostle spoon (Antiq.), a spoon of silver, with the handleterminating in the figure of an apostle. One or more were offered bysponsors at baptism as a present to the godchild. B. Jonson.
APOSTLESHIP
The office or dignity of an apostle.
APOSTOLIC
A member of one of certain ascetic sects which at various timesprofessed to imitate the practice of the apostles.
APOSTOLIC DELEGATE
The diplomatic agent of the pope highest in grade, superior toa nuncio.
APOSTOLICALLY
In an apostolic manner.
APOSTOLICALNESS
Apostolicity. Dr. H. More.
APOSTROPHE
A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenlybreaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses,in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as,Milton's apostrophe to Light at the beginning of the third book of"Paradise Lost."
APOSTROPHIC
Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.
APOSTROPHIZE
To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe.
APOSTUME
See Aposteme. [Obs.]
APOTACTITE
One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitationof the first believers, renounced all their possessions.
APOTELESM
The calculation and explanation of a nativity. [Obs.] Bailey.
APOTHECARY
One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinalpurposes.
APOTHECIUM
The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses ofvarious shapes.
APOTHEGMATIST
A collector or maker of apothegms. Pope.
APOTHEGMATIZE
To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings.
APOTHEM
The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of aregular polygon.
APOTHEOSIZE
To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; todeify; to glorify.
APOTOME
The difference between two quantities commensurable only inpower, as between sq. root2 and 1, or between the diagonal and sideof a square.
APOZEM
A decoction or infusion. [Obs.] Wiseman.
APOZEMICAL
Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction. [Obs.] J. Whitaker.
APPAIR
To impair; to grow worse. [Obs.]
APPALACHIAN
Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States,commonly called the Allegheny mountains.
APPALL
Terror; dismay. [Poet.] Cowper.
APPALLING
Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident.-- Ap*pall"ing*ly, adv.
APPALLMENT
Depression occasioned by terror; dismay. [Obs.] Bacon.
APPANAGIST
A prince to whom an appanage has been granted.
APPARAILLYNG
Preparation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
APPARATUS
A collection of organs all of which unite in a common function;as, the respiratory apparatus.
APPAREL
The furniture of a ship, as masts, sails, rigging, anchors,guns, etc.
APPARENCE
Appearance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
APPARENT
An heir apparent. [Obs.]I'll draw it [the sword] as apparent to the crown. Shak.
APPARENTNESS
Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.[R.] Sherwood.
APPARITION
The first appearance of a star or other luminary after havingbeen invisible or obscured; -- opposed to occultation. Circle ofperpetual apparition. See under Circle.
APPARITIONAL
Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral. "Anapparitional soul." Tylor.
APPARITOR
A messenger or officer who serves the process of anecclesiastical court. Bouvier.
APPAUME
A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.
APPAY
To pay; to satisfy or appease. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
APPEACH
To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; toreproach. [Obs.]And oft of error did himself appeach. Spenser.
APPEACHER
An accuser. [Obs.] Raleigh.
APPEACHMENT
Accusation. [Obs.]
APPEAL
To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to asuperior judge or court for the purpose of reรซxamination of fordecision. Tomlins.I appeal unto Cรฆsar. Acts xxv. 11.
APPEALANT
An appellant. [Obs.] Shak.
APPEALER
One who makes an appeal.
APPEALING
That appeals; imploring.-- Ap*peal"*ing*ly, adv.-- Ap*peal"ing*ness, n.
APPEAR
Appearance. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.
APPEARANCE
The coming into court of either of the parties; the beingpresent in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in anaction, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formalentry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding bywhich a party proceeded against places himself before the court, andsubmits to its jurisdiction. Burrill. Bouvier. Daniell. To put in anappearance, to be present; to appear in person.-- To save appearances, to preserve a fair outward show.
APPEARER
One who appears. Sir T. Browne.
APPEARINGLY
Apparently. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
APPEASABLE
Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable.-- Ap*peas"a*ble*ness, n.
APPEASE
To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; tostill; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease thetumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.
APPEASEMENT
The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased;pacification. Hayward.
APPEASER
One who appeases; a pacifier.
APPEASIVE
Tending to appease.
APPEL
A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; --called also attack.
APPELLABLE
Appealable.
APPELLANCY
Capability of appeal.
APPELLANT
Relating to an appeal; appellate. "An appellant jurisdiction."Hallam. Party appellant (Law), the party who appeals; appellant; --opposed to respondent, or appellee. Tomlins.
APPELLATE
Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals. "Appellatejurisdiction." Blackstone. "Appellate judges." Burke. Appelate court,a court having cognizance of appeals.
APPELLATIVE
Common, as opposed to proper; denominative of a class.
APPELLATIVELY
After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to expresswhole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes usedappellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man.
APPELLATIVENESS
The quality of being appellative. Fuller.
APPELLATORY
Containing an appeal.An appellatory libel ought to contain the name of the partyappellant. Ayliffe.
APPENAGE
See Appanage.
APPENDAGE
A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ orlimb, esp. of the articulates.Antennรฆ and other appendages used for feeling. Carpenter.
APPENDAGED
Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.
APPENDANCE
Something appendant.
APPENDANT
Appended by prescription, that is, a personal usage for aconsiderable time; -- said of a thing of inheritance belonging toanother inheritance which is superior or more worthy; as, anadvowson, common, etc. , which may be appendant to a manor, common offishing to a freehold, a seat in church to a house. Wharton. Coke.
APPENDICAL
Of or like an appendix.
APPENDICATE
To append. [Obs.]
APPENDICATION
An appendage. [Obs.]
APPENDICITIS
Inflammation of the vermiform appendix.
APPENDICLE
A small appendage.
APPENDICULAR
Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate. [R.]
APPENDICULARIA
A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like atadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvรฆ of otherTunicata. It is the type of the order Copelata or Larvalia. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
APPENDICULATA
An order of annelids; the Polychรฆta.
APPENDICULATE
Having small appendages; forming an appendage. Appendiculateleaf, a small appended leaf. Withering.
APPENDIX VERMIFORMIS
The vermiform appendix.
APPENSION
The act of appending. [Obs.]
APPERCEIVE
To perceive; to comprehend. Chaucer.
APPERCEPTION
The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in itsown states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes,intensified or energetic perception. Leibnitz. Reid.This feeling has been called by philosophers the apperception orconsciousness of our own existence. Sir W. Hamilton.
APPERIL
Peril. [Obs.] Shak.
APPERTAIN
To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, orcustom; to relate.Things appertaining to this life. Hooker.Give it unto him to whom it appertaineth. Lev. vi. 5.
APPERTAINMENT
That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance. [Obs. orR.] Shak.
APPERTINENT
Belonging; appertaining. [Now usually written appurtenant.]Coleridge.
APPETE
To seek for; to desire. [Obs.] Chaucer.
APPETENCE
A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite;appetency.
APPETENT
Desiring; eagerly desirous. [R.]Appetent after glory and renown. Sir G. Buck.
APPETIBILITY
The quality of being desirable. Bramhall.
APPETIBLE
Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire.Bramhall.
APPETITION
Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something. Holland.
APPETITIVE
Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitivepower or faculty. Sir M. Hale.
APPETIZE
To make hungry; to whet the appetite of. Sir W. Scott.
APPETIZER
Something which creates or whets an appetite.
APPETIZING
Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food.The appearance of the wild ducks is very appetizing. Sir W. Scott.
APPIAN
Of or pertaining to Appius. Appian Way, the great paved highwayfrom ancient Rome trough Capua to Brundisium, now Brindisi,constructed partly by Appius Claudius, about 312 b. c.
APPLAUD
To express approbation loudly or significantly.
APPLAUDER
One who applauds.
APPLAUSABLE
Worthy pf applause; praiseworthy. [Obs.]
APPLAUSE
The act of applauding; approbation and praise publiclyexpressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet,acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.The brave man seeks not popular applause. Dryden.
APPLAUSIVE
Expressing applause; approbative.-- Ap*plau"sive*ly, adv.
APPLE
Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the baseof the fruit; an apple tree.
APPLE PIE
A pie made of apples (usually sliced or stewed) with spice andsugar. Apple-pie bed, a bed in which, as a joke, the sheets are sodoubled (like the cover of an apple turnover) as to prevent any onefrom getting at his length between them. Halliwell, Conybeare.-- Apple-pie order, perfect order or arrangement. [Colloq.]Halliwell.
APPLE-FACED
Having a round, broad face, like an apple. "Apple-facedchildren." Dickens.
APPLE-JACK
Apple brandy. [U.S.]
APPLE-JOHN
A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; --called also Johnapple. Shak.
APPLE-SQUIRE
A pimp; a kept gallant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
APPLIABLE
Applicable; also, compliant. [Obs.] Howell.
APPLICABILITY
The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.
APPLICABLE
Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; havingrelevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case underconsideration.-- Ap"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.-- Ap"pli*ca*bly, adv.
APPLICANCY
The quality or state of being applicable. [R.]
APPLICANT
One who apples for something; one who makes request; apetitioner.The applicant for a cup of water. Plumtre.The court require the applicant to appear in person. Z. Swift.
APPLICATE
Applied or put to some use.Those applicate sciences which extend the power of man over theelements. I. Taylor.Applicate number (Math.), one which applied to some concrete case.-- Applicate ordinate, right line applied at right angles to theaxis of any conic section, and bounded by the curve.
APPLICATIVE
Having of being applied or used; applying; applicatory;practical. Bramhall.-- Ap"pli*ca*tive*ly, adv.
APPLICATORILY
By way of application.
APPLICATORY
Having the property of applying; applicative; practical.-- n.
APPLIEDLY
By application. [R.]
APPLIER
He who, or that which, applies.
APPLIMENT
Application. [Obs.] Marston
APPLIQUE
Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of anothercolor or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, appliquรฉlace; appliquรฉ work.
APPLOT
To divide into plots or parts; to apportion. Milton.
APPLOTMENT
Apportionment.
APPOGGIATURA
A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing thetime it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note onedegree above or below the principal note unless it be of the sameharmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in theillustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony.
APPOINT
To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a newdisposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance; --said of an estate already conveyed. Burrill. Kent. To appoint one'sself, to resolve. [Obs.] Crowley.
APPOINTABLE
Capable of being appointed or constituted.
APPOINTEE
A person in whose favor a power of appointment is executed.Kent. Wharton.
APPOINTER
One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment. Kent.
APPOINTIVE
Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office. [R.]
APPOINTMENT
The exercise of the power of designating (under a "power ofappointment") a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property;also, the instrument by which the designation is made.
APPOINTOR
The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2.
APPORTER
A bringer in; an importer. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
APPORTION
To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide anddistribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportionundivided rights; to apportion time among various employments.
APPORTIONATENESS
The quality of being apportioned or in proportion. [Obs. & R.]
APPORTIONER
One who apportions.
APPORTIONMENT
The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions orshares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to eachproprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property. A.Hamilton.
APPOSABLE
Capable of being apposed, or applied one to another, as thethumb to the fingers of the hand.
APPOSE
To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose.To appose him without any accuser, and that secretly. Tyndale.
APPOSED
Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of abird's beak.
APPOSER
An examiner; one whose business is to put questions. Formerly,in the English Court of Exchequer, an officer who audited thesheriffs' accounts.
APPOSITE
Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat;-- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case.-- Ap"po*site*ly, adv.-- Ap"po*site*ness, n.
APPOSITION
The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case,without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, theorator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first.Growth by apposition (Physiol.), a mode of growth characteristic ofnon vascular tissues, in which nutritive matter from the blood istransformed on the surface of an organ into solid unorganizedsubstance.
APPOSITIONAL
Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically.Ellicott.
APPOSITIVE
Of or relating to apposition; in apposition.-- n.
APPRAISABLE
Capable of being appraised.
APPRAISAL
A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.
APPRAISEMENT
The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser;estimation of worth.
APPRAISER
One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn toestimate and fix the value of goods or estates.
APPRECATION
Earnest prayer; devout wish. [Obs.]A solemn apprecation of good success. Bp. Hall.
APPRECATORY
Praying or wishing good. [Obs.]"Apprecatory benedictions." Bp.Hall.
APPRECIABLE
Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to beestimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity.-- Ap*pre"ci*a*bly, adv.
APPRECIANT
Appreciative. [R.]
APPRECIATE
To rise in value. [See note under Rise, v. i.] J. Morse.
APPRECIATINGLY
In an appreciating manner; with appreciation.
APPRECIATIVE
Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception;as, an appreciative audience.-- Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ly, adv.
APPRECIATIVENESS
The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition ofexcellence.
APPRECIATOR
One who appreciates.
APPRECIATORY
Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatorycommendation.-- Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ri*ly, adv.
APPREHENDER
One who apprehends.
APPREHENSIBIITY
The quality of being apprehensible. [R.] De Quincey.
APPREHENSIBLE
Capable of being apprehended or conceived. "Apprehensible byfaith." Bp. Hall.-- Ap`*pre*hen"si*bly, adv.
APPREHENSIVELY
In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger.
APPREHENSIVENESS
The quality or state of being apprehensive.
APPRENTICE
A barrister, considered a learner of law till of sixteen years'standing, when he might be called to the rank of serjeant. [Obs.]Blackstone.
APPRENTICEAGE
Apprenticeship. [Obs.]
APPRENTICEHOOD
Apprenticeship. [Obs.]
APPRENTICESHIP
Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its wholelength, as against a stem, Gray.
APPRISE
To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed byof; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; heapprised the commander of what he had done.
APPRIZAL
See Appraisal.
APPRIZE
To appraise; to value; to appreciate.
APPRIZEMENT
Appraisement.
APPRIZER
A creditor for whom an appraisal is made. Sir W. Scott.
APPROACH
To take approaches to.
APPROACHABILITY
The quality of being approachable; approachableness.
APPROACHABLE
Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachablevirtue.
APPROACHABLENESS
The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility.
APPROACHER
One who approaches.
APPROACHING
The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree intoanother, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also,inarching and grafting by approach.
APPROACHLESS
Impossible to be approached.
APPROACHMENT
Approach. [Archaic] Holland.
APPROBATE
Approved. [Obs.] Elyot.
APPROBATIVE
Approving, or implying approbation. Milner.
APPROBATIVENESS
Love of approbation.
APPROBATOR
One who approves. [R.]
APPROBATORY
Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory. Sheldon.
APPROMT
To quicken; to prompt. [Obs.]To appromt our invention. Bacon.
APPROPINQUATE
To approach. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton.
APPROPINQUATION
A drawing nigh; approach. [R.] Bp. Hall.
APPROPINQUITY
Nearness; propinquity. [R.] J. Gregory.
APPROPRE
To appropriate. [Obs.] Fuller.
APPROPRIABLE
Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, orassigned exclusively to a particular use. Sir T. Browne.
APPROPRIAMENT
What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.[Obs.]If you can neglect Your own appropriaments. Ford.
APPROPRIATE
Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence: Belongingpeculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper.In its strict and appropriate meaning. Porteus.Appropriate acts of divine worship. Stillingfleet.It is not at all times easy to find words appropriate to express ourideas. Locke.
APPROPRIATELY
In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly.
APPROPRIATENESS
The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness.Froude.
APPROPRIATIVE
Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, anappropriative act.-- Ap*pro"pri*a*tive*ness, n.
APPROPRIATOR
A spiritual corporation possessed of an appropriated benefice;also, an impropriator.
APPROVABLE
Worthy of being approved; meritorious.-- Ap*prov"a*ble*ness, n.
APPROVAL
Approbation; sanction.A censor . . . without whose approval nTemple.
APPROVANCE
Approval. [Archaic] Thomson.
APPROVE
To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit; said esp. ofwaste or common land appropriated by the lord of the manor.
APPROVEDLY
So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner.
APPROVEMENT
a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason orfelony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a givingevidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon. The term isno longer in use; it corresponded to what is now known as turningking's (or queen's) evidence in England, and state's evidence in theUnited States. Burrill. Bouvier.
APPROVER
One who confesses a crime and accuses another. See 1stApprovement, 2.
APPROVING
Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile.-- Ap*prov"ing*ly, adv.
APPROXIMATE
To draw; to approach.
APPROXIMATELY
With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.
APPROXIMATIVE
Approaching; approximate.-- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ly, adv.-- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ness, n.
APPROXIMATOR
One who, or that which, approximates.
APPUI
A support or supporter; a stay; a prop. [Obs.]If a be to climb trees that are of any great height, there would bestays and appuies set to it. Holland.Point d'appui. Etym: [F., a point of support.] (Mil.) (a) A givenpoint or body, upon which troops are formed, or by which are marchedin line or column. (b) An advantageous defensive support, as acastle, morass, wood, declivity, etc.
APPULSE
The near approach of one heavenly body to another, or to themeridian; a coming into conjunction; as, the appulse of the moon to astar, or of a star to the meridian.
APPULSION
A driving or striking against; an appulse.
APPULSIVE
Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of theplanets. P. Cyc.
APPULSIVELY
By appulsion.
APPURTENANCE
That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage;an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; incommon parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to anotherthing as principal, and which passes as incident to it, as a right ofway, or other easement to land; a right of common to pasture, anouthouse, barn, garden, or orchard, to a house or messuage. In astrict legal sense, land can never pass as an appurtenance to land.Tomlins. Bouvier. Burrill.Globes . . . provided as appurtenances to astronomy. Bacon.The structure of the eye, and of its appurtenances. Reid.
APPURTENANT
Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory;incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings.Blackstone. Common appurtenatn. (Law) See under Common, n.
APRICATE
To bask in the sun. Boyle.
APRICATION
Basking in the sun. [R.]
APRICOT
A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, anddelicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnรฆus) whichbears this fruit. By cultivation it has been introduced throughoutthe temperate zone.
APRIORISM
An a priori principle.
APRIORITY
The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior toexperience; a priori reasoning.
APROCTA
A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture.
APROCTOUS
Without an anal office.
APRON MAN
A man who wears an apron; a laboring man; a mechanic. [Obs.]Shak.
APRON STRING
The string of an apron. To be tied to a wife's or mother'sapron strings, to be unduly controlled by a wife or mother.He was so made that he could not submit to be tied to the apronstrings even of the best of wives. Macaulay.
APRONED
Wearing an apron.A cobbler aproned, and a parson gowned. Pope.
APRONFUL
The quality an apron can hold.
APRONLESS
Without an apron.
APSIDAL
Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.
APSIDES
See Apsis.
APSIS
One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite,which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body,corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to theapogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higherapsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, theline of apsides.
APT
To fit; to suit; to adapt. [Obs.] " To apt their places." B.Jonson.That our speech be apted to edification. Jer. Taylor.
APTABLE
Capable of being adapted. [Obs.] Sherwood.
APTATE
To make fit. [Obs.] Bailey
APTERA
Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnรฆn order ofinsects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders,centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in severaldistinct classes and orders.
APTERAL
Apterous.
APTERAN
One of the Aptera.
APTERIA
Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. SeePteryliรฆ.
APTEROUS
Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.
APTERYGES
An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx.
APTERYX
A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with onlyshort rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; thekiwi. It is allied to the gigantic extinct moas of the same country.Five species are known.
APTITUDINAL
Suitable; fit. [Obs.]
APTLY
In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently;appropriately; readily.
APTOTE
A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.
APTOTIC
Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as,aptotic languages.
APTYCHUS
A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammoniteshells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula.
APUS
A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.
APYRETIC
Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermissionof fever. Dunglison.
APYREXIAL
Relating to apyrexy. "Apyrexial period." Brande & C.
APYROUS
Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat withoutalteration of form or properties.
AQUA
Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry,in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed.Aqua ammoniรฆ, the aqueous solution of ammonia; liquid ammonia; oftencalled aqua ammonia.-- Aqua marine, or Aqua marina. Same as Aquamarine.-- Aqua regia. Etym: [L., royal water] (Chem.), a very corrosivefuming yellow liquid consisting of nitric and hydrochloric acids. Ithas the power of dissolving gold, the "royal" metal.-- Aqua Tofana, a fluid containing arsenic, and used for secretpoisoning, made by an Italian woman named Tofana, in the middle ofthe 17th century, who is said to have poisoned more than 600 persons.Francis.-- Aqua vitรฆ Etym: [L., water of life. Cf. Eau de vie, Usquebaugh],a name given to brandy and some other ardent spirits. Shak.
AQUA FORTIS
Nitric acid. [Archaic]
AQUAMARINE
A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. SeeBeryl.
AQUAPUNCTURE
The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief ofpain.
AQUARELLE
A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also,the mode of painting in such colors.
AQUARELLIST
A painter in thin transparent water colors.
AQUARIAN
One of a sect of Christian in the primitive church who usedwater instead of wine in the Lord's Supper.
AQUARIUM
An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glasssides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants arekept.
AQUATIC
Pertaining to water growing in water; living in, swimming in,or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls.
AQUATICAL
Aquatic. [R.]
AQUATILE
Inhabiting the water. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
AQUEDUCT
A canal or passage; as, the aqueduct of Sylvius, a channelconnecting the third and fourth ventricles of the brain.
AQUEITY
Wateriness. [Obs.]
AQUEOUSNESS
Wateriness.
AQUIFEROUS
Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferousvessels; the aquiferous system.
AQUIFORM
Having the form of water.
AQUILA
A genus of eagles.
AQUILATED
Adorned with eagles' heads.
AQUILON
The north wind. [Obs.] Shak.
AQUIPAROUS
Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands. Dunglison.
AQUITANIAN
Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony.
AQUOSE
Watery; aqueous. [R.] Bailey.
AQUOSITY
The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness. Huxley.Very little water or aquosity is found in their belly. Holland.
AR
Ere; before. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ARA
The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of theScorpion.
ARAB
One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria,Northern Africa, etc. Street Arab, a homeless vagabond in the streetsof a city, particularly and outcast boy or girl. Tylor.The ragged outcasts and street Arabs who are shivering in dampdoorways. Lond. Sat. Rev.
ARABA
A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and oftencovered. [Oriental]
ARABESQUE
A style of ornamentation either painted, inlaid, or carved inlow relief. It consists of a pattern in which plants, fruits,foliage, etc., as well as figures of men and animals, real orimaginary, are fantastically interlaced or put together.
ARABESQUED
Ornamented in the style of arabesques.
ARABIAN
Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants. Arabian bird,the phenix. Shak.
ARABIC
Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians. Arabic numerals orfigures, the nine digits, 1, 2, 3, etc., and the cipher 0.-- Gum arabic. See under Gum.
ARABICAL
Relating to Arabia; Arabic.-- A*rab"ic*al*ly, adv.
ARABIN
A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gumarabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.
ARABINOSE
A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum byboiling it with dilute sulphuric acid.
ARABISM
An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language. Stuart.
ARABIST
One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also,formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery.
ARABLE
Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to landwhich has been plowed or tilled.
ARABY
The country of Arabia. [Archaic & Poetic]
ARACANESE
Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah.-- n. sing. & pl.
ARACARI
A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied tothe toucans. There are several species.
ARACE
To tear up by the roots; to draw away. [Obs.] Wyatt.
ARACEOUS
Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arumis the type.
ARACHNID
An arachnidan. Huxley.
ARACHNIDA
One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.
ARACHNIDAN
One of the Arachnida.
ARACHNIDIUM
The glandular organ in which the material for the web ofspiders is secreted.
ARACHNITIS
Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane.
ARACHNOID
Pertaining to a thin membrane of the brain and spinal cord,between the dura mater and pia mater.
ARACHNOIDAL
Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid.
ARACHNOIDEA
Same as Arachnida.
ARACHNOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to arachnology.
ARACHNOLOGIST
One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.
ARACHNOLOGY
The department of zoรถlogy which treats of spiders and otherArachnida.
ARAEOMETER
See Areometer.
ARAEOSTYLE
See Intercolumniation.
ARAEOSYSTYLE
See Intercolumniation.
ARAGONESE
Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
ARAGONITE
A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate oflime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of itsphysical characters.
ARAGUATO
A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus).See Howler, n., 2.
ARAISE
To raise. [Obs.] Shak.
ARAK
Same as Arrack.
ARAMAIC
Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language,or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramรฆan; -- specificallyapplied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages,including Syriac and Chaldee.-- n.
ARAMAISM
An idiom of the Aramaic.
ARANEIDAN
Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.-- n.
ARANEIFORM
Having the form of a spider. Kirby.
ARANEINA
The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.
ARANEOSE
Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid.
ARANEOUS
Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, thearaneous membrane of the eye. See Arachnoid. Derham.
ARANGO
A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported fromBombay for use in the African slave trade. McCulloch.
ARAPAIMA
A large fresh-water food fish of South America.
ARARA
The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossusaterrimus).
ARATION
Plowing; tillage. [R.]Lands are said to be in a state of aration when they are undertillage. Brande.
ARATORY
Contributing to tillage.
ARAUCARIA
A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species areconfined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differfrom those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces intwo or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. Theseeds are edible.
ARAUCARIAN
Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria. The earliestconifers in geological history were mostly Araucarian. Dana.
ARBITER
To act as arbiter between. [Obs.]
ARBITRABLE
Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable.[Archaic] Bp. Hall.
ARBITRAGE
A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange);also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the sametime in different markets.
ARBITRAL
Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration. [R.]
ARBITRARILY
In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely.
ARBITRARINESS
The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny. Bp.Hall.
ARBITRARIOUS
Arbitrary; despotic. [Obs.] -- Ar`bi*tra"*ri*ous*ly, adv.[Obs.]
ARBITRATION
The hearing and determination of a cause between parties incontroversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.
ARBITRATRIX
A female who arbitrates or judges.
ARBITRESS
A female arbiter; an arbitratrix. Milton.
ARBLAST
A crossbow. See Arbalest.
ARBOR
A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines,branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower. Sir P.Sidney.
ARBOR DIANAE
A precipitation of silver, in a beautiful arborescent form.
ARBOR VINE
A species of bindweed.
ARBOR VITAE
An evergreen tree of the cypress tribe, genus Thuja. TheAmerican species is the T. occidentalis.
ARBORARY
Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal.
ARBORATOR
One who plants or who prunes trees. [Obs.] Evelyn.
ARBORED
Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees. "An arboreal walk."Pollok.
ARBORESCENCE
The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree inminerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form;as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.
ARBORESCENT
Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; havingcrystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree."Arborescent hollyhocks." Evelyn.
ARBORET
A small tree or shrub. [Obs.] Spenser.Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers Imbordered on each bank.Milton.
ARBORETUM
A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs iscultivated for scientific or educational purposes.
ARBORICAL
Relating to trees. [Obs.]
ARBORICOLE
Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.
ARBORICULTURAL
Pertaining to arboriculture. Loudon.
ARBORICULTURE
The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or forornamental purposes.
ARBORICULTURIST
One who cultivates trees.
ARBORIFORM
Treelike in shape.
ARBORIST
One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in theknowledge of trees. Howell.
ARBORIZATION
The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals orfossils; a dendrite.
ARBORIZED
Having a treelike appearance. "An arborized or moss agate."Wright.
ARBOROUS
Formed by trees. [Obs.]From under shady, arborous roof. Milton.
ARBUSCLE
A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; atreelike shrub. Bradley.
ARBUSCULAR
Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike. Da Costa.
ARBUSTIVE
Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.Bartram.
ARC
A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of anellipse.
ARC LIGHT
The light of an arc lamp.
ARCADED
Furnished with an arcade.
ARCADIA
Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as,Arcadian simplicity or scenery.
ARCANE
Hidden; secret. [Obs.] "The arcane part of divine wisdom."Berkeley.
ARCANUM
A secret remedy; an elixir. Dunglison.
ARCBOUTANT
A flying buttress. Gwilt.
ARCH
Any part of a curved line.
ARCH BRICK
A wedge-shaped brick used in the building of an arch.
ARCH STONE
A wedge-shaped stone used in an arch; a voussoir.
ARCH-
A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend.
ARCHAEAN
Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geologicalhistory.
ARCHAEOGRAPHY
A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities.
ARCHAEOLITHIC
Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to aprehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age.
ARCHAEOLOGIAN
An archรฆologist.
ARCHAEOLOGIST
One versed in archรฆology; an antiquary. Wright.
ARCHAEOLOGY
The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoricantiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of anearly epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, writtenmanuscripts, etc.
ARCHAEOPTERYX
A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having along tapering tail of many vertebrรฆ with feathers along each side,and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics.
ARCHAEOSTOMATOUS
Applied to a gastrula when the blastorope does not entirely up.
ARCHAEOZOIC
Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.
ARCHAIC
Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated;obsolescent.
ARCHAICAL
Archaic. [R.] -- Ar*cha"ic*al*ly, adv.
ARCHAISTIC
Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to anarchaism.
ARCHAIZE
To make appear archaic or antique. Mahaffy.
ARCHANGEL
A term applied to several different species of plants (Angelicaarchangelica, Lamium album, etc.).
ARCHANGELIC
Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, orresembling, an archangel. Milton.
ARCHBISHOP
A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (oftencalled a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of thesuffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopalauthority in his own diocese.
ARCHBISHOPRIC
The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see orprovince over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.
ARCHBUTLER
A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.
ARCHCHAMBERLAIN
A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire,whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England.
ARCHCHANCELLOR
A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, whopresided over the secretaries of the court.
ARCHCHEMIC
Of supreme chemical powers. [R.] "The archchemic sun." Milton.
ARCHDEACON
In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below abishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though withindependent authority. Blackstone.
ARCHDEACONRY
The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. SeeBenefice.Every diocese is divided into archdeaconries. Blackstone.
ARCHDEACONSHIP
The office of an archdeacon.
ARCHDIOCESE
The diocese of an archbishop.
ARCHDUCAL
Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy.
ARCHDUCHESS
The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperialfamily of Austria. See Archduke.
ARCHDUCHY
The territory of an archduke or archduchess. Ash.
ARCHDUKE
A prince of the imperial family of Austria.
ARCHDUKEDOM
An archduchy.
ARCHEBIOSIS
To origination of living matter from non-living. SeeAbiogenesis. Bastian.
ARCHED
Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an archeddoor.
ARCHEGONIAL
Relating to the archegonium.
ARCHEGONIUM
The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamicplants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants.
ARCHEGONY
Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis.
ARCHELOGY
The science of, or a treatise on, first principles. Fleming.
ARCHENCEPHALA
The division that includes man alone. R. Owen.
ARCHENEMY
A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary ofmankind. Milton.
ARCHENTERIC
Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination.
ARCHENTERON
The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of agastrula or other embryo. See Illust. under Invagination.
ARCHER
A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.
ARCHER FISH
A small fish (Toxotes jaculator), of the East Indies; -- socalled from its ejecting drops of water from its mouth at its prey.The name is also applied to Chรฆtodon rostratus.
ARCHERESS
A female archer. Markham.
ARCHERSHIP
The art or skill of an archer.
ARCHES
pl. of Arch, n. Court of arches, or Arches Court (Eng. Law),the court of appeal of the Archbishop of Canterbury, whereof thejudge, who sits as deputy to the archbishop, is called the Dean ofthe Arches, because he anciently held his court in the church of St.Mary-le-Bow (de arcubus). It is now held in Westminster. Mozley & W.
ARCHETYPAL
Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real orideal) or pattern; original. "One archetypal mind." Gudworth.
ARCHETYPALLY
With reference to the archetype; originally. "Partsarchetypally distinct." Dana.
ARCHETYPE
The standard weight or coin by which others are adjusted.
ARCHETYPICAL
Relating to an archetype; archetypal.
ARCHEUS
The vital principle or force which (according to theParacelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of livingbeings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers.[Obs.] Johnson.
ARCHI-
A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal.In Biol. and Anat. it usually means primitive, original, ancestral;as, archipterygium, the primitive fin or wing.
ARCHIANNELIDA
A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segmentsor distinct ventral nerve ganglions.
ARCHIATER
Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe,to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physicianof some cities. P. Cyc.
ARCHIBALD WHEEL
A metal-hubbed wheel of great strength and elasticity, esp.adapted for artillery carriages and motor cars.
ARCHIBLASTULA
A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c
ARCHICAL
Chief; primary; primordial. [Obs.] Cudworth.
ARCHIDIACONAL
Of or pertaining to an archdeacon.This offense is liable to be censured in an archidiaconal visitation.Johnson.
ARCHIEPISCOPAL
Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is anarchiepiscopal see.
ARCHIEPISCOPALITY
The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy.Fuller.
ARCHIEPISCOPATE
The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric.
ARCHIEREY
The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans,archbishops, and bishops. Pinkerton.
ARCHILOCHIAN
Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as,Archilochian meter.
ARCHIMEDEAN
Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher;constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedeandrill, propeller, etc. Archimedean screw, or Archimedes' screw, aninstrument, said to have been invented by Archimedes, for raisingwater, formed by winding a flexible tube round a cylinder in the formof a screw. When the screw is placed in an inclined position, and thelower end immersed in water, by causing the screw to revolve, thewater is raised to the upper end. Francis.
ARCHIMEDES
An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of thesubcarboniferous rocks. Its form is that of a screw.
ARCHING
Hogging; -- opposed to sagging.
ARCHIPELAGIC
Of or pertaining to an archipelago.
ARCHIPTERYGIUM
The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus.
ARCHITECTIVE
Used in building; proper for building. Derham.
ARCHITECTONICS
The science of architecture.
ARCHITECTOR
An architect. [Obs.] North.
ARCHITECTRESS
A female architect.
ARCHITECTURAL
Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rulesof architecture.-- Ar`chi*tec"tur*al*ly, adv.
ARCHITEUTHIS
A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, foundesp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand.
ARCHITRAVED
Furnished with an architrave. Cowper.
ARCHIVAL
Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records. Tooke.
ARCHIVE
The place in which public records or historic documents arekept.Our words . . . . become records in God's court, and are laid up inhis archives as witnesses. Gov. of Tongue.
ARCHIVIST
A keeper of archives or records. [R.]
ARCHIVOLT
A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, havingthe bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings witha unison.
ARCHLY
In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness;slyly; waggishly.Archly the maiden smiled. Longfellow.
ARCHMARSHAL
The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that tothe Elector of Saxony.
ARCHNESS
The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free frommalice; waggishness. Goldsmith.
ARCHON
One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, bypreรซminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates.-- Ar*chon"tic, a.
ARCHONSHIP
The office of an archon. Mitford.
ARCHONTATE
An archon's term of office. Gibbon.
ARCHONTS
The group including man alone.
ARCHOPLASM
The substance from which attraction spheres develop in mitoticcell division, and of which they consist.
ARCHPRELATE
An archbishop or other chief prelate.
ARCHPRESBYTER
Same as Archpriest.
ARCHPRESBYTERY
The absolute dominion of presbytery. Milton.
ARCHPRIEST
A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean.
ARCHPRIMATE
The chief primate. Milton.
ARCHTRAITOR
A chief or transcendent traitor. I. Watts.
ARCHTREASURER
A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of theGerman empire.
ARCHWAY
A way or passage under an arch.
ARCHWIFE
A big, masculine wife. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ARCHWISE
Arch-shaped.
ARCHY
Arched; as, archy brows.
ARCIFORM
Having the form of an arch; curved.
ARCOGRAPH
An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of acentral point; a cyclograph.
ARCTATION
Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as inconstipation from inflammation.
ARCTIC
Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellationcalled the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle,region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.
ARCTISCA
A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix.
ARCTOGEAL
Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna.
ARCTOIDEA
A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels,etc.
ARCTURUS
A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellationBoรถtes.
ARCUAL
Of or pertaining to an arc. Arcual measure of an angle (Math.),that in which the unit angle has its measuring arc equal to theradius of the circle.
ARCUATELY
In the form of a bow.
ARCUATION
A mode of propagating trees by bending branches to the ground,and covering the small shoots with earth; layering. Chambers.
ARCUBALIST
A crossbow. Fosbroke.
ARCUBALISTER
A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist. Camden.
ARCUBUS
See Arquebus. [Obs.]
ARDASSINE
A very fine sort of Persian silk.
ARDENTLY
In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately;passionately.
ARDENTNESS
Ardency. [R.]
ARDOIS SYSTEM
A widely used system of electric night signals in which aseries of double electric lamps (white and red) is arrangedvertically on a mast, and operated from a keyboard below.
ARDOR
Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim. [Thus used by Milton.]
ARDUOUSLY
In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.
ARDUOUSNESS
The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution.
ARDUROUS
Burning; ardent. [R.]Lo! further on, Where flames the arduous Spirit of Isidore. Cary.
ARE
The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be;but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are,and is, all come from the root as.
AREA
The superficial contents of any figure; the surface includedwithin any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a squareor a triangle.
AREAL
Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areasor spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves).
AREAR
To raise; to set up; to stir up. [Obs.]
ARECA
A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut,or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the PiperBetle and lime.
AREEK
In a reeking condition. Swift.
AREFACTION
The act of drying, or the state of growing dry.The arefaction of the earth. Sir M. Hale.
AREFY
To dry, or make dry. Bacon.
ARENA
The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which thegladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so calledbecause it was covered with sand.
ARENACEOUS
Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand;easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone.
ARENARIOUS
Sandy; as, arenarious soil.
ARENATION
A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body. Dunglison.
ARENDATOR
In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents orrevenues.
ARENICOLITE
An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks. Dana.
ARENILITIC
Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains.Kirwan.
ARENOSE
Sandy; full of sand. Johnson.
ARENULOUS
Full of fine sand; like sand. [Obs.]
AREOLA
The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle orpustule.
AREOLAR
Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices orareolรฆ. reolar tissue (Anat.), a form of fibrous connective tissue inwhich the fibers are loosely arranged with numerous spaces, orareolรฆ, between them.
AREOLE
Same as Areola.
AREOLET
A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on thewings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.
AREOMETER
An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; aform hydrometer.
AREOMETRY
The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids.
AREOPAGIST
See Areopagite.
AREOPAGITE
A member of the Areopagus. Acts xvii. 34.
AREOPAGITIC
Pertaining to the Areopagus. Mitford.
AREOPAGUS
The highest judicial court at Athens. Its sessions were held onMars' Hill. Hence, any high court or tribunal
AREOSTYLE
See Intercolumniation, and Arรฆostyle.
AREOSYSTYLE
See Intercolumniation, and Arรฆosystyle.
ARERE
See Arear. [Obs.] Ellis.
AREST
A support for the spear when couched for the attack. [Obs.]Chaucer.
ARET
To reckon; to ascribe; to impute. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ARETAICS
The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtueand happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics.J. Grote.
ARETE
An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiaryridge between two mountain gorges.
ARETOLOGY
That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, itsnature, and the means of attaining to it.
AREW
In a row. [Obs.] "All her teeth arew." Spenser.
ARGAL
Crude tartar. See Argol.
ARGALA
The adjutant bird.
ARGAND LAMP
A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney whichallow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame. Argandburner, a burner for an Argand lamp, or a gas burner in which theprinciple of that lamp is applied.
ARGAS
A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. Thefamous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that ofCentral America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje.
ARGEAN
Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.
ARGENT
Whiteness; anything that is white.The polished argent of her breast. Tennyson.
ARGENTAL
Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combinedwith, silver.
ARGENTALIUM
A (patented) alloy of aluminium and silver, with a density ofabout 2.9.
ARGENTAN
An alloy of nicked with copper and zinc; German silver.
ARGENTATE
Silvery white. Gray.
ARGENTATION
A coating or overlaying with silver. [R.] Johnson.
ARGENTIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said ofcertain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowestproportion; as, argentic chloride.
ARGENTIFEROUS
Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore orveins.
ARGENTINE
A siliceous variety of calcite, or carbonate of lime, having asilvery-white, pearly luster, and a waving or curved lamellarstructure.
ARGENTITE
Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silverglance. It has a metallic luster, a lead-gray color, and is sectilelike lead.
ARGENTOUS
Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certainsilver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than inargentic compounds; as, argentous chloride.
ARGENTRY
Silver plate or vessels. [Obs.]Bowls of frosted argentry. Howell.
ARGIL
Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. SeeClay.
ARGILLACEOUS
Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil orclay; clayey. Argillaceous sandstone (Geol.), a sandstone containingmuch clay.-- Argillaceous iron ore, the clay ironstone.-- Argillaceous schist or state. See Argillite.
ARGILLIFEROUS
Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil.Kirwan.
ARGILLITE
Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate. Its colors is bluishor blackish gray, sometimes greenish gray, brownish red, etc.-- Ar`gil*lit"ic, a.
ARGILLO-AREENACEOUS
Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.
ARGILLO-CALCAREOUS
Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.
ARGILLO-FERRUGINOUS
Containing clay and iron.
ARGILLOUS
Argillaceous; clayey. Sir T. Browne.
ARGIVE
Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece.-- n.
ARGO
The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-fourcompanions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.
ARGOAN
Pertaining to the ship Argo.
ARGOILE
Potter's clay. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ARGOL
Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar isprepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited fromwines on the sides of the casks. Ure.
ARGOLIC
Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus.
ARGON
A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphereand remarkable for its chemical inertness. Rayleigh and Ramsay.
ARGONAUT
A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta.
ARGONAUTA
A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus orpaper sailor.
ARGONAUTIC
Of or pertaining to the Argonauts.
ARGOSY
A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size.Where your argosies with portly sail . . . Do overpeer the pettytraffickers. Shak.
ARGOT
A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves,tramps, and vagabonds; flash.
ARGUABLE
Capable of being argued; admitting of debate.
ARGUER
One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.
ARGULUS
A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fishlouse. See Branchiura.
ARGUMENT
The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends; as,the altitude is the argument of the refraction.
ARGUMENTABLE
Admitting of argument. [R.] Chalmers.
ARGUMENTAL
Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative.
ARGUMENTIZE
To argue or discuss. [Obs.] Wood.
ARGUS
A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes,who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to thepeacock's tail.
ARGUS SHELL
A species of shell (Cyprรฆa argus), beautifully variegated withspots resembling those in a peacock's tail.
ARGUS-EYED
Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.
ARGUTATION
Caviling; subtle disputation. [Obs.]
ARGUTELY
In a subtle; shrewdly.
ARGUTENESS
Acuteness. Dryden.
ARIA
An air or song; a melody; a tune.
ARIAN
See Aryan.
ARIANISM
The doctrines of the Arians.
ARIANIZE
To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become anArian.
ARICINE
An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark.
ARID
Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren. "An aridwaste." Thomson.
ARIDNESS
Aridity; dryness.
ARIES
A battering-ram.
ARIETATE
To butt, as a ram. [Obs.]
ARIETATION
A short aria, or air. "A military ariette." Sir W. Scott.
ARIGHT
Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake orcrime; as, to worship God aright.
ARILLODE
A false aril; an aril originating from the micropyle instead offrom the funicle or chalaza of the ovule. The mace of the nutmeg isan arillode.
ARIMAN
See Ahriman.
ARIOLATION
A soothsaying; a foretelling. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ARIOSE
Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.Mendelssohn wants the ariose beauty of Handel; vocal melody is nothis forte; the interest of his airs harmonic. Foreign Quart. Rev.
ARIOSO
In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.
ARISE
Rising. [Obs.] Drayton.
ARIST
of Arise, for ariseth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ARISTA
An awn. Gray.
ARISTARCH
A severe critic. Knowles.
ARISTARCHIAN
Severely critical.
ARISTARCHY
Severely criticism.
ARISTATE
Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat;awned. Gray.
ARISTOLOGY
The science of dining. Quart. Rev.
ARISTOPHANIC
Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet.
ARISTOTELIAN
Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher(384-322 b. c.).-- n.
ARISTOTELIANISM
The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripateticphilosophy.
ARISTOTELIC
Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy. "Aristotelicusage." Sir W. Hamilton.
ARISTOTYPE
Orig., a printing-out process using paper coated with silverchloride in gelatin; now, any such process using silver salts ineither collodion or gelatin; also, a print so made.
ARISTULATE
Pertaining a short beard or awn. Gray.
ARITHMANCY
Divination by means of numbers.
ARITHMETICAL
Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules ormethod of arithmetic. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm. SeeLogarithm.-- Arithmetical mean. See Mean.-- Arithmetical progression. See Progression.-- Arithmetical proportion. See Proportion.
ARITHMETICALLY
Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic.
ARITHMETICIAN
One skilled in arithmetic.
ARITHMOMANCY
Arithmancy.
ARITHMOMETER
A calculating machine.
ARK
The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, whichsupported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied themost sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tablesof stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of theCovenant.
ARK SHELL
A marine bivalve shell belonging to the genus Arca and itsallies.
ARKITE
Belonging to the ark. [R.] Faber.
ARKOSE
A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite orgneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments. -- Ar*kos"ic (#), a.
ARLES
An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.[Scot.] Arles penny, earnest money given to servants. Kersey.
ARM
To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack orresistance; to take arms. " 'Tis time to arm." Shak.
ARM-GRET
Great as a man's arm. [Obs.]A wreath of gold, arm-gret. Chaucer.
ARMADA
A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanishfleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.
ARMADO
Armada. [Obs.]
ARMAMENT
All the cannon and small arms collectively, with theirequipments, belonging to a ship or a fortification.
ARMAMENTARY
An armory; a magazine or arsenal. [R.]
ARMATURE
A piece of soft iron used to connect the two poles of a magnet,or electro-magnet, in order to complete the circuit, or to receiveand apply the magnetic force. In the ordinary horseshoe magnet, itserves to prevent the dissipation of the magnetic force.
ARMCHAIR
A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms. Tennyson.
ARMED
Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds ofprey. Armed at all points (Blazoning), completely incased in armor,sometimes described as armed cap-ร -pie. Cussans.-- Armed en flute. (Naut.) See under Flute.-- Armed magnet, a magnet provided with an armature.-- Armed neutrality. See under Neutrality.
ARMENIAN
Of or pertaining to Armenia. Armenian bole, a soft clayey earthof a bright red color found in Armenia, Tuscany, etc.-- Armenian stone. (a) The commercial name of lapis lazuli. (b)Emery.
ARMET
A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.
ARMFUL
As much as the arm can hold.
ARMGAUNT
With gaunt or slender legs. "An armgaunt steed." Shak.
ARMIFEROUS
Bearing arms or weapons. [R.]
ARMIGER
Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who borehis shield and rendered other services. In later use, one next indegree to a knight, and entitled to armorial bearings. The term isnow superseded by esquire. Jacob.
ARMIGEROUS
Bearing arms. [R.]They belonged to the armigerous part of the population, and wereentitled to write themselves Esquire. De Quincey.
ARMILLA
A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.
ARMILLARY
Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting ofrings or circles. Armillary sphere, an ancient astronomical machinecomposed of an assemblage of rings, all circles of the same sphere,designed to represent the positions of the important circles of thecelestial sphere. Nichol.
ARMING
A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of asounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom.Totten.
ARMINIAN
Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to theirdoctrines. See note under Arminian, n.
ARMINIANISM
The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians.
ARMIPOTENCE
Power in arms. [R.] Johnson.
ARMIPOTENT
Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.The temple stood of Mars armipotent. Dryden.
ARMISTICE
A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; atemporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce.
ARMONIAC
Ammoniac. [Obs.]
ARMOR-BEARER
One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger. Judg.ix. 54.
ARMOR-PLATED
Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war;steel-clad.This day will be launched . . . the first armor-plated steam frigatein the possession of Great Britain. Times (Dec. 29, 1860).
ARMORED
Clad with armor.
ARMORED CRUISER
A man-of-war carrying a large coal supply, and more or lessprotected from the enemy's shot by iron or steel armor. There is nodistinct and accepted classification distinguishing armored andprotected cruisers from each other, except that the first have moreor heavier armor than the second.
ARMORIAL
Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of afamily.Figures with armorial signs of race and birth. Wordsworth.Armorial bearings. See Arms, 4.
ARMORICAN
A native of Armorica.
ARMORIST
One skilled in coat armor or heraldry. Cussans.
ARMORY
A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.Simmonds.
ARMPIT
The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; theaxilla.
ARMRACK
A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms.
ARMS
Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike orassault another with; an aggressive weapon. Cowell. Blackstone.
ARMY ORGANIZATION
The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, andequips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are: (1) A regularor active army, in which soldiers serve continuously with the colorsand live in barracks or cantonments when not in the field; (2) thereserves of this army, in which the soldiers, while remainingconstantly subject to a call to the colors, live at their homes,being summoned more or less frequently to report for instruction,drill, or maneuvers; and (3) one or more classes of soldiersorganized largely for territorial defense, living at home and havingonly occasional periods of drill and instraction, who are variouslycalled home reserves (as in the table below), second, third, etc.,line of defense (the regular army and its reserves ordinarilyconstituting the first line of defense), territorial forces, or thelike. In countries where conscription prevails a soldier is supposedto serve a given number of years.  He is usually enrolled first inthe regular army, then passes to its reserve, then into the homereserves, to serve until he reaches the age limit. It for any reasonhe is not enrolled in the regular army, he may begin his service inthe army reserves or even the home reserves, but then serves the fullnumber of years or up to the age limit. In equipment the organizationof the army is into the three great arms of infantry, cavalry, andartillery, together with more or less numerous other branches, suchas engineers, medical corps, etc., besides the staff organizationssuch as those of the pay and subsistence departments.
ARMY WORM
The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger thanthe domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.
ARNATTO
See Annotto.
ARNICA
A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnicamontana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as anarcotic and stimulant.
ARNICIN
An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin.
ARNICINE
An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.
ARNOTTO
Same as Annotto.
AROINT
Stand off, or begone. [Obs.]Aroint thee, witch, the rump-fed ronyon cries. Shak.
AROLLA
The stone pine (Pinus Cembra).
AROMA
Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam. Aromatic compound (Chem.),one of a large class of organic substances, as the oils of bitteralmonds, wintergreen, and turpentine, the balsams, camphors, etc.,many of which have an aromatic odor. They include many of the mostimportant of the carbon compounds and may all be derived from thebenzene group, C6H6. The term is extended also to many of theirderivatives.-- Aromatic vinegar. See under Vinegar.
AROMATIC
A plant, drug, or medicine, characterized by a fragrant smell,and usually by a warm, pungent taste, as ginger, cinnamon spices.
AROMATIZATION
The act of impregnating or secting with aroma.
AROMATIZE
To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicyscent or taste to; to perfume. Bacon.
AROMATIZER
One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic. Evelyn.
AROMATOUS
Aromatic. [Obs.] Caxton.
AROPH
A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate variousmedical remedies. [Obs.]
AROSE
The past or preterit tense of Arise.
AROUSAL
The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.Whatever has associated itself with the arousal and activity of ourbetter nature. Hare.
AROUSE
To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put inmotion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one fromsleep; to arouse the dormant faculties.Grasping his spear, forth issued to arouse His brother, mightysovereign on the host. Cowper.No suspicion was aroused. Merivale.
AROW
In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order. Shak.And twenty, rank in rank, they rode arow. Dryden.
AROYNT
See Aroint.
ARPEGGIO
The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, asin playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.
ARPENTATOR
The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.[R.]
ARPINE
An arpent. [Obs.] Webster (1623).
ARQUATED
Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved. [R.]
ARQUEBUSIER
A soldier armed with an arquebus.Soldiers armed with guns, of whatsoever sort or denomination, appearto have been called arquebusiers. E. Lodge.
ARQUIFOUX
Same as Alquifou.
ARRACH
See Orach.
ARRACK
A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardentspirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice,molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc.
ARRAGONITE
See Aragonite.
ARRAIGN
To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer tothe matter charged in an indictment or complaint. Blackstone.
ARRAIGNER
One who arraigns. Coleridge.
ARRAIGNMENT
The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the actof calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to anindictment or complaint.
ARRANGER
One who arranges. Burke.
ARRANT
Notoriously or preรซminently bad; thorough or downright, in abad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward.I discover an arrant laziness in my soul. Fuller.
ARRANTLY
Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently;shamefully. L'Estrange.
ARRAS
Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen orhangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures.Stateliest couches, with rich arras spread. Cowper.Behind the arras I'll convey myself. Shak.
ARRASENE
A material of wool or silk used for working the figures inembroidery.
ARRASTRE
A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containingfree gold.
ARRAUGHT
Obtained; seized. Spenser.
ARRAY
To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is,to call them man by man. Blackstone. To array a panel, to set forthin order the men that are impaneled. Cowell. Tomlins.
ARRAYER
One who arrays. In some early English statutes, applied to anofficer who had care of the soldiers' armor, and who saw them dulyaccoutered.
ARREAR
To or in the rear; behind; backwards. [Obs.] Spenser.
ARREARAGE
That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part;arrears.The old arrearages . . . being defrayed. Howell.
ARRECT
To impute. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
ARRECTARY
An upright beam. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ARRENOTOKOUS
Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps andbees.
ARRENTATION
A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in aforest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.
ARREPTION
The act of taking away. [Obs.] "This arreption was sudden." Bp.Hall.
ARREPTITIOUS
Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad;crack-brained. [Obs.]Odd, arreptitious, frantic extravagances. Howell.
ARREST
To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrestone for debt, or for a crime.
ARRESTATION
Arrest. [R.]The arrestation of the English resident in France was decreed by theNational Convention. H. M. Williams.
ARRESTEE
The person in whose hands is the property attached byarrestment.
ARRESTER
The person at whose suit an arrestment is made. [Also writtenarrestor.]
ARRESTING
Striking; attracting attention; impressive.This most solemn and arresting occurrence. J. H. Newman.
ARRESTIVE
Tending to arrest. McCosh.
ARRESTMENT
The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., aprocess by which money or movables in the possession of a third partyare attached.
ARRET
Same as Aret. [Obs.] Spenser.
ARRHA
Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; apledge or earnest.
ARRHAPHOSTIC
Seamless. [R.]
ARRHYTMY
Want of rhythm. [R.]
ARRIDE
To please; to gratify. [Archaic] B. Jonson.Above all thy rarities, old Oxenford, what do most arride and solaceme are thy repositories of moldering learning. Lamb.
ARRIERE
"That which is behind"; the rear; -- chiefly used as anadjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate. Arriere fee,Arriere fief, a fee or fief dependent on a superior fee, or a feeheld of a feudatory.-- Arriere vassal, the vassal of a vassal.
ARRIERE-BAN
A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only theirimmediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to takethe field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to becalled to arms, as in ancient France.
ARRIS
The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meetingeach other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to theedges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate theflutings in a Doric column. P. Cyc. Arris fillet, a triangular pieceof wood used to raise the slates of a roof against a chimney or wall,to throw off the rain. Gwilt.-- Arris gutter, a gutter of a V form fixed to the eaves of abuilding. Gwilt.
ARRISH
The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish. [Eng.][Written also arish, ersh, etc.]The moment we entered the stubble or arrish. Blackw. Mag.
ARRISWISE
Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise.
ARRIVANCE
Arrival. [Obs.] Shak.
ARRIVE
Arrival. [Obs.] Chaucer.How should I joy of thy arrive to hear! Drayton.
ARRIVER
One who arrives.
ARROGANCE
The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in anoverbearing manner; that species of pride which consists inexorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or whichexalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree;proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption;presumption.I hate not you for her proud arrogance. Shak.
ARROGANCY
Arrogance. Shak.
ARROGANTLY
In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.
ARROGANTNESS
Arrogance. [R.]
ARROGATE
To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, orpresumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baselesspretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion overkings.He arrogated to himself the right of deciding dogmatically what wasorthodox doctrine. Macaulay.
ARROGATION
Adoption of a person of full age.
ARROGATIVE
Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance. [R.]Dr. H. More.
ARRONDISSEMENT
A subdivision of a department. [France]
ARROSE
To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten. [Obs.]The blissful dew of heaven does arrose you. Two N. Kins.
ARROSION
A gnawing. [Obs.] Bailey.
ARROW
A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usuallyfeathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow. Broad arrow. (a) Anarrow with a broad head. (b) A mark placed upon British ordnance andgovernment stores, which bears a rude resemblance to a broadarrowhead.
ARROW GRASS
An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and otherspecies) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads.
ARROWHEAD
An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia,-- named from the shape of the leaves.
ARROWHEADED
Shaped like the head of an arow; cuneiform. Arrowheadedcharacters, characters the elements of which consist of strokesresembling arrowheads, nailheads, or wedges; -- hence called alsonail-headed, wedge-formed, cuneiform, or cuneatic characters; theoldest written characters used in the country about the Tigris andEuphrates, and subsequently in Persia, and abounding among the ruinsof Persepolis, Nineveh, and Babylon. See Cuneiform.
ARROWROOT
A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea,now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians usedthe roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows.
ARROWWOOD
A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets;-- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots.
ARROWWORM
A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at thesurface of the sea. See Sagitta.
ARSCHIN
See Arshine.
ARSE
The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; thefundament; the bottom.
ARSENAL
A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufactureand storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land ornaval service.
ARSENATE
A salt of arsenic acid.
ARSENIATE
See Arsenate. [R.]
ARSENIC
One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal inits physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking withthe nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster,though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at356ยบ Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combinedwith silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment andrealgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is thetrue arsenticum of the ancients. The element and its compounds areactive poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight.Symbol As.
ARSENICAL
Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenicalvapor; arsenical wall papers. Arsenical silver, an ore of silvercontaining arsenic.
ARSENICATE
To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic.
ARSENICISM
A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic.
ARSENIDE
A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element orradical; -- formerly called arseniuret.
ARSENIFEROUS
Containing or producing arsenic.
ARSENIOUS
Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having anequivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid.
ARSENITE
A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base.
ARSENIURET
See Arsenide.
ARSENIURETED
Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances orradicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen. [Also spelt arseniuretted.]
ARSENOPYRITE
A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containingarsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites andmispickel.
ARSESMART
Smartweed; water pepper. Dr. Prior.
ARSHINE
A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.
ARSINE
A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless andexceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniuretedhydrogen.
ARSIS
The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which itis raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; -- opposed to thesis. Moore.
ARSMETRIKE
Arithmetic. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ARSON
The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse ofanother man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious andvoluntary firing of a building or ship. Wharton.
ART
The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, ofthe substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the pluralare, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending ofthe second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn orpoetical style.
ART UNION
An association for promoting art (esp. the arts of design), andgiving encouragement to artists.
ARTEMIA
A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines;the brine shrimp. See Brine shrimp.
ARTEMISIA
A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort,southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or commonwormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of theRocky Mountain region.
ARTERIAC
Of or pertaining to the windpipe.
ARTERIALIZATION
The process of converting venous blood into arterial bloodduring its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed andcarbonic acid evolved; -- called also aรซration and hematosis.
ARTERIALIZE
To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood byexposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial.
ARTERIOGRAPHY
A systematic description of the arteries.
ARTERIOLE
A small artery.
ARTERIOLOGY
That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.
ARTERIOSCLEROSIS
Abnormal thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries,esp. of the intima, occurring mostly in old age. --Ar*te`ri*o*scle*rot"ic (#), a.
ARTERIOTOMY
The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.
ARTERITIS
Inflammation of an artery or arteries. Dunglison.
ARTERY
One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous orarterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscularwalls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries.
ARTESIAN
Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), inFrance. Artesian wells, wells made by boring into the earth till theinstrument reaches water, which, from internal pressure, flowsspontaneously like a fountain. They are usually of small diameter andoften of great depth.
ARTFULLY
In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully;dexterously; craftily.
ARTFULNESS
The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft.
ARTHEN
Same as Earthen. [Obs.] "An arthen pot." Holland.
ARTHRITIS
Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout.
ARTHROCHONDRITIS
Chondritis of a joint.
ARTHRODERM
The external covering of an Arthropod.
ARTHRODESIS
Surgical fixation of joints.
ARTHRODIA
A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articularsurfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect balland socket.
ARTHRODYNIA
An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, notdependent upon structural disease.
ARTHRODYNIC
Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic.
ARTHROGASTRA
A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated,including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.
ARTHROGRAPHY
The description of joints.
ARTHROLOGY
That part of anatomy which treats of joints.
ARTHROMERE
One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca.Packard.
ARTHROPATHY
Any disease of the joints.
ARTHROPLEURA
The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere.
ARTHROPOD
One of the Arthropoda.
ARTHROPODA
A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that havejointed legs. It includes Insects, Arachnida, Pychnogonida, andCrustacea.-- Ar*throp"o*dal, a.
ARTHROPOMATA
One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda.
ARTHROSIS
Articulation.
ARTHROSPORE
A bacterial resting cell, -- formerly considered a spore, butnow known to occur even in endosporous bacteria. -- Ar`thro*spor"ic(#), Ar*thros"po*rous (#), a.
ARTHROSTRACA
One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because thethorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes theAmphipoda and Isopoda.
ARTHROTOME
A strong scalpel used in the dissection of joints.
ARTHROZOIC
Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate.
ARTHURIAN
Of or pertaining to King Arthur or his knights.  J. R. Symonds.
ARTIAD
Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicalsthe valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.
ARTICLE
One of the three words, a, an, the, used before nouns to limitor define their application. A (or an) is called the indefinitearticle, the the definite article.
ARTICLED
Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.
ARTICULAR
Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; anarticular process.
ARTICULARLY
In an articular or an articulate manner.
ARTICULATE
An animal of the subkingdom Articulata.
ARTICULATENESS
Quality of being articulate.
ARTICULATION
A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.
ARTICULATIVE
Of or pertaining to articulation. Bush.
ARTICULATOR
One who, or that which, articulates; as: (a) One who enunciatesdistinctly. (b) One who prepares and mounts skeletons. (c) Aninstrument to cure stammering.
ARTICULUS
A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of anarthropod appendage.
ARTIFACT
A product of human workmanship; -- applied esp. to the simplerproducts of aboriginal art as distinguished from natural objects.
ARTIFICER
A military mechanic, as a blacksmith, carpenter, etc.; also,one who prepares the shells, fuses, grenades, etc., in a militarylaboratory.
ARTIFICIALITY
The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which isartificial.
ARTIFICIALIZE
To render artificial.
ARTIFICIALNESS
The quality of being artificial.
ARTIFICIOUS
Artificial. [Obs.] Johnson.
ARTILIZE
To make resemble. [Obs.]If I was a philosopher, says Montaigne, I would naturalize artinstead of artilizing nature. Bolingbroke.
ARTILLERIST
A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; anartilleryman.
ARTILLERY WHEEL
A kind of heavily built dished wheel with a long axle box, usedon gun carriages, usually having 14 spokes and 7 felloes; hence, awheel of similar construction for use on automobiles, etc.
ARTILLERYMAN
A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun infiring.
ARTIODACTYLA
One of the divisions of the ungulate animals. The functionaltoes of the hind foot are even in number, and the third digit of eachfoot (corresponding to the middle finger in man) is asymmetrical andpaired with the fourth digit, as in the hog, the sheep, and the ox; -- opposed to Perissodactyla.
ARTIODACTYLE
One of the Artiodactyla.
ARTIODACTYLOUS
Even-toed.
ARTISTE
One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment,as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.
ARTLESSLY
In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile;unaffectedly. Pope.
ARTLESSNESS
The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile;simplicity; sincerity.
ARTLY
With art or skill. [Obs.]
ARTOTYPE
A kind of autotype.
ARTOTYRITE
One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated theLord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the firstoblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of theirflocks. [Gen. iv. 3, 4.]
ARTOW
A contraction of art thou. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ARTSMAN
A man skilled in an art or in arts. [Obs.] Bacon.
ARUM
A genus of plants found in central Europe and about theMediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. Thecuckoopint of the English is an example.Our common arums the lords and ladies of village children. Lubbock.
ARUNDELIAN
Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelianmarbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundelin 1624.
ARUNDIFEROUS
Producing reeds or canes.
ARUNDINACEOUS
Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane.
ARUNDINEOUS
Abounding with reeds; reedy.
ARUSPEX
One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans,who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victimsoffered on the altars of the gods.
ARUSPICE
A soothsayer of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspex. [Written alsoharuspice.]
ARUSPICY
Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slainsacrifice.
ARVAL
A funeral feast. [North of Eng.] Grose.
ARVICOLE
A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse. There are manyspecies.
ARYAN
Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European;Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages.
ARYANIZE
To make Aryan (a language, or in language). K. Johnston.
ARYTENOID
Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx,and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them. Thecartilages are attached to the cricoid cartilage and connected withthe vocal cords.
AS
An ace. [Obs.] Chaucer. Ambes-as, double aces.
ASA
An ancient name of a gum.
ASAPHUS
A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation.See Illust. in Append.
ASARABACCA
An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europรฆum), the leaves androots of which are emetic and cathartic. It is principally used incephalic snuffs.
ASARONE
A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from theAsarum Europรฆum; -- called also camphor of asarum.
ASBESTIC
Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable;asbestine.
ASBESTIFORM
Having the form or structure of asbestus.
ASBESTINE
Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature;incombustible; asbestic.
ASBESTOUS
Asbestic.
ASBOLIN
A peculiar acrid and bitter oil, obtained from wood soot.
ASCARIASIS
A disease, usually accompanied by colicky pains and diarrhea,caused by the presence of ascarids in the gastrointestinal canal.
ASCARID
A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascarislumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine and alliedspecies found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to thepinworm (Oxyuris), often troublesome to children and aged persons.
ASCEND
To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to goup the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, athrone.
ASCENDABLE
Capable of being ascended.
ASCENDANT
The horoscope, or that degree of the ecliptic which rises abovethe horizon at the moment of one's birth; supposed to have acommanding influence on a person's life and fortune.
ASCENDENCY
Governing or controlling influence; domination; power.An undisputed ascendency. Macaulay.Custom has an ascendency over the understanding. Watts.
ASCENDIBLE
Capable of being ascended; climbable.
ASCENDING
Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite.-- As*cend"ing*ly, adv. Ascending latitude (Astron.), the increasinglatitude of a planet. Ferguson.-- Ascending line (Geneol.), the line of relationship tracedbackward or through one's ancestors. One's father and mother,grandfather and grandmother, etc., are in the line direct ascending.-- Ascending node having, that node of the moon or a planet whereinit passes the ecliptic to proceed northward. It is also called thenorthern node. Herschel.-- Ascending series. (Math.) (a) A series arranged according to theascending powers of a quantity. (b) A series in which each term isgreater than the preceding.-- Ascending signs, signs east of the meridian.
ASCENSIONAL
Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive;tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon. Ascensionaldifference (Astron.), the difference between oblique and rightascension; -- used chiefly as expressing the difference between thetime of the rising or setting of a body and six o'clock, or six hoursfrom its meridian passage.
ASCENSIVE
Augmentative; intensive. Ellicott.
ASCERTAINABLE
That may be ascertained.-- As`cer*tain"a*ble*ness, n.-- As`cer*tain"a*bly, adv.
ASCERTAINER
One who ascertains.
ASCERTAINMENT
The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding outby investigation; discovery.The positive ascertainment of its limits. Burke.
ASCETIC
Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.The stern ascetic rigor of the Temple discipline. Sir W. Scott.
ASCETICISM
The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics.
ASCHAM
A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and otherimplements of archery.
ASCI
See Ascus.
ASCIAN
One of the Ascii.
ASCIDIAN
One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of theTunicata. Also as an adj.
ASCIDIARIUM
The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in acompound ascidian.
ASCIDIFORM
Shaped like an ascidian.
ASCIDIOIDEA
A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle. Thegroup includes, social, and compound species. The gill is a netlikestructure within the oral aperture. The integument is usuallyleathery in texture. See Illustration in Appendix.
ASCIDIOZOOID
One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. SeeAscidioidea.
ASCIDIUM
A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of aplant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderliketraps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).
ASCIGEROUS
Having asci. Loudon.
ASCITES
A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen;dropsy of the peritoneum. Dunglison.
ASCITITIOUS
Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious;additional; assumed.Homer has been reckoned an ascititious name. Pope.
ASCLEPIAD
A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias,consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and aniambus.
ASCLEPIADACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweedfamily.
ASCLEPIAS
A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and someother species having medicinal properties. Asclepias butterfly(Zoรถl.), a large, handsome, red and black butterfly (DanaisArchippus), found in both hemispheres. It feeds on plants of thegenus Asclepias.
ASCOCARP
In ascomycetous fungi, the spherical, discoid, or cup-shapedbody within which the asci are collected, and which constitutes themature fructification. The different forms are known in mycologyunder distinct names. Called also spore fruit.
ASCOCOCCUS
A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions,occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyalinecapsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci.
ASCOMYCETES
A large class of higher fungi distinguished by septate hyphรฆ,and by having their spores formed in asci, or spore sacs. Itcomprises many orders, among which are the yeasts, molds, mildews,truffles, morels, etc. -- As`co*my*ce"tous (#), a.
ASCOSPORE
One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi.[See Illust. of Ascus.]
ASCRIBABLE
Capable of being ascribed; attributable.
ASCRIPT
See Adscript. [Obs.]
ASCRIPTION
The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also,that which is ascribed.
ASCUS
A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed theseedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certainfungi.
ASEMIA
Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs ofthought.
ASEPSIS
State of being aseptic; the methods or processes ofasepticizing.
ASEPTIC
Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.-- n.
ASEXUAL
Having no distinct; without sexual action; as, asexualreproduction. See Fission and Gemmation.
ASEXUALIZATION
The act or process of sterilizing an animal or human being, asby vasectomy.
ASEXUALLY
In an asexual manner; without sexual agency.
ASH
A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnateleaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as theEuropean ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana).Prickly ash (Zanthoxylum Americanum) and Poison ash (Rhus venenata)are shrubs of different families, somewhat resembling the true ashesin their foliage.-- Mountain ash. See Roman tree, and under Mountain.
ASH WEDNESDAY
The first day of Lent; -- so called from a custom in the RomanCatholic church of putting ashes, on that day, upon the foreheads ofpenitents.
ASH-COLORED
Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray.
ASH-FIRE
A low fire used in chemical operations.
ASHAME
To shame. [R.] Barrow.
ASHAMED
Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or aconviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety. "Iam ashamed to beg." Wyclif.All that forsake thee shall be ashamed. Jer. xvii. 13.I began to be ashamed of sitting idle. Johnson.Enough to make us ashamed of our species. Macaulay.An ashamed person can hardly endure to meet the gaze of thosepresent. Darwin.
ASHAMEDLY
Bashfully. [R.]
ASHANTEE
A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa.
ASHEN
Of or pertaining to the ash tree. "Ashen poles." Dryden.
ASHINE
Shining; radiant.
ASHORE
On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to theshore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimesopposed to aboard or afloat.Here shall I die ashore. Shak.I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Shak.
ASHTORETH
The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal wasthe principal male divinity. W. Smith.
ASHWEED
Goutweed.
ASIAN
Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic. "Asian princes." Jer.Taylor.-- n.
ASIARCH
One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia,who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites.Milner.
ASIATIC
Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants.-- n.
ASIATICISM
Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.
ASIDE
Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayerwhich the other players are not supposed to hear.
ASILUS
A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including thebee killer and robber fly.
ASININE
Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, asstupidity and obstinacy. "Asinine nature." B. Jonson. "Asininefeast." Milton.
ASININITY
The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined withobstinacy.
ASIPHONATE
Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of manybivalve shells.-- n.
ASITIA
Want of appetite; loathing of food.
ASK
A water newt. [Scot. & North of Eng.]
ASKANCE
To turn aside. [Poet.]O, how are they wrapped in with infamies That from their own misdeedsaskance their eyes! Shak.
ASKER
One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer. Shak.
ASKEW
Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimesindicating scorn, or contempt, or entry. Spenser.
ASLAKE
To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.[Archaic] Chaucer.
ASLANT
Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely.[The shaft] drove through his neck aslant. Dryden.
ASLOPE
Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction;sloping. "Set them not upright, but aslope." Bacon.
ASLUG
Sluggishly. [Obs.] Fotherby.
ASMEAR
Smeared over. Dickens.
ASMONEAN
Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which theMaccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty. [Writtenalso Asmonรฆan.]
ASOAK
Soaking.
ASOMATOUS
Without a material body; incorporeal. Todd.
ASONANT
Not sounding or sounded. [R.] C. C. Felton.
ASP
Same as Aspen. "Trembling poplar or asp." Martyn.
ASPARAGINE
A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O,found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus. It isbelieved to aid in the disposition of nitrogenous matter throughoutthe plant; -- called also altheine.
ASPARAGINOUS
Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; havingshoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables.
ASPARAGUS
A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural orderLiliaceรฆ, and having erect much branched stems, and very slenderbranchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves. Asparagusracemosus is a shrubby climbing plant with fragrant flowers.Specifically: The Asparagus officinalis, a species cultivated ingardens.
ASPARTIC
Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid.
ASPECT
The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another,or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them andmeeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon eachother or upon the earth. Milton.
ASPECT RATIO
The ratio of the long to the short side of an aรซroplane,aรซrocurve, or wing.
ASPECTABLE
Capable of being; visible. "The aspectable world." Ray."Aspectable stars." Mrs. Browning.
ASPECTANT
Facing each other.
ASPECTED
Having an aspect. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
ASPECTION
The act of viewing; a look. [Obs.]
ASPEN
Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspenwood.Nor aspen leaves confess the gentlest breeze. Gay.
ASPER
Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce. [Archaic] "Anasper sound." Bacon.
ASPERATE
To make rough or uneven.The asperated part of its surface. Boyle.
ASPERATION
The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough. Bailey.
ASPERGES
See Wateringpot shell.
ASPERGILLIFORM
Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliformstigma. Gray.
ASPERMATOUS
Aspermous.
ASPERMOUS
Destitute of seeds; aspermatous.
ASPERNE
To spurn; to despise. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
ASPEROUS
Rough; uneven. Boyle.
ASPERSED
Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered orstrewed over the surface. Cussans.
ASPERSER
One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another.
ASPERSIVE
Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous.-- As*pers"ive*ly, adv.
ASPERSOIR
An aspergill.
ASPHALT
To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphaltedstreets.
ASPHALTE
Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2.
ASPHALTIC
Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt;bituminous. "Asphaltic pool." "Asphaltic slime." Milton.
ASPHALTITE
Asphaltic.
ASPHALTUS
See Asphalt.
ASPHODEL
A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus. Theasphodels are hardy perennial plants, several species of which arecultivated for the beauty of their flowers.
ASPHYCTIC
Pertaining to asphyxia.
ASPHYXIAL
Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena.
ASPHYXIATE
To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate.
ASPHYXIATION
The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.
ASPIC
A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), whichproduces a volatile oil. See Spike.
ASPIDOBRANCHIA
A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including theabalone shells and keyhole limpets.
ASPIRANT
Aspiring.
ASPIRATE
To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as,we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or aliquid consonant.
ASPIRATOR
An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certainliquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means ofsuction.
ASPIRATORY
Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air
ASPIRE
To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to. [Obs.]That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak.
ASPIREMENT
Aspiration. [Obs.]
ASPIRER
One who aspires.
ASPIRIN
A white crystalline compound of acetyl and salicylic acid usedas a drug for the salicylic acid liberated from it in the intestines.
ASPIRING
That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind.-- As*pir"ing*ly, adv.-- As*pir"ing*ness, n.
ASPISH
Pertaining to, or like, an asp.
ASPORTATION
The felonious removal of goods from the place where they weredeposited.
ASPRAWL
Sprawling.
ASQUAT
Squatting.
ASQUINT
With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line ofvision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to lookasquint.
ASS
A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than thehorse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame ordomestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become thetype of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wildasses which are swift-footed.
ASSAFOETIDA
Same as Asafetida.
ASSAI
A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.
ASSAILABLE
Capable of being assailed.
ASSAILANT
Assailing; attacking. Milton.
ASSAILER
One who assails.
ASSAILMENT
The act or power of assailing; attack; assault. [R.]His most frequent assailment was the headache. Johnson.
ASSAMAR
The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellowcolor, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like,are roasted till they turn brown.
ASSAMESE
Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or toits inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
ASSART
The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thusdestroying the tickets or coverts of a forest. Spelman. Cowell.
ASSASSIN
One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secretassault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared fordefense.
ASSASSINATION
The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence.
ASSASSINATOR
An assassin.
ASSASSINOUS
Murderous. Milton.
ASSASTION
Roasting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ASSAULT
An apparently violent attempt, or willful offer with force orviolence, to do hurt to another; an attempt or offer to beat another,accompanied by a degree of violence, but without touching his person,as by lifting the fist, or a cane, in a threatening manner, or bystriking at him, and missing him. If the blow aimed takes effect, itis a battery. Blackstone. Wharton.Practically, however, the word assault is used to include thebattery. Mozley & W.
ASSAULTABLE
Capable of being assaulted.
ASSAULTER
One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant. E. Hall.
ASSAY
The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of aparticular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination ofthe proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.
ASSAY POUND
A small standard weight used in assaying bullion, etc.,sometimes equaling 0.5 gram, but varying with the assayer.
ASSAY TON
A weight of 29.166 + grams used in assaying, for convenience.Since it bears the same relation to the milligram that a ton of 2000avoirdupois pounds does to the troy ounce, the weight in milligramsof precious metal obtained from an assay ton of ore gives directlythe number of ounces to the ton.
ASSAYABLE
That may be assayed.
ASSAYER
One who assays. Specifically: One who examines metallic ores orcompounds, for the purpose of determining the amount of anyparticular metal in the same, especially of gold or silver.
ASSAYING
The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examiningmetals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.
ASSE
A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valuedfor its fur.
ASSECURATION
Assurance; certainty. [Obs.]
ASSECURE
To make sure or safe; to assure. [Obs.] Hooker.
ASSECUTION
An obtaining or acquiring. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
ASSEGAI
Same as Assagai.
ASSEMBLE
To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together;to convene; to congregate.Thither he assembled all his train. Milton.All the men of Israel assembled themselves. 1 Kings viii. 2.
ASSEMBLER
One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of anumber assembled.
ASSEMBLY
A beat of the drum or sound of the bugle as a signal to troopsto assemble.
ASSEMBLYMAN
A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of astate legislature.
ASSENT
To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement,acquiescence, concurrence, or concession.Who informed the governor . . . And the Jews also assented, sayingthat these things were so. Acts xxiv. 9.The princess assented to all that was suggested. Macaulay.
ASSENTATION
Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical orpretended concurrence.Abject flattery and indiscriminate assentation degrade as much asindiscriminate contradiction and noisy debate disgust. Ld.Chesterfield.
ASSENTATOR
An obsequious; a flatterer. [R.]
ASSENTATORY
Flattering; obsequious. [Obs.] -- As*sent"a*to*ri*ly, adv.[Obs.]
ASSENTER
One who assents.
ASSENTIENT
Assenting.
ASSENTING
Giving or implying assent.-- As*sent"ing*ly, adv.
ASSENTIVE
Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying.-- As*sent"ive*ness, n.
ASSENTMENT
Assent; agreement. [Obs.]
ASSERTER
One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor.The inflexible asserter of the rights of the church. Milman.
ASSERTIVE
Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory.In a confident and assertive form. Glanvill.As*sert"ive*ly, adv.-- As*sert"ive*ness, n.
ASSERTOR
One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates aclaim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender;an asserter.The assertors of liberty said not a word. Macaulay.Faithful assertor of thy country's cause. Prior.
ASSERTORIAL
Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical andapodeictical.
ASSERTORY
Affirming; maintaining.Arguments . . . assertory, not probatory. Jer. Taylor.An assertory, not a promissory, declaration. Bentham.A proposition is assertory, when it enounces what is known as actual.Sir W. Hamilton.
ASSESSABLE
Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property.
ASSESSEE
One who is assessed.
ASSESSION
A sitting beside or near.
ASSESSORIAL
Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors.Coxe.
ASSESSORSHIP
The office or function of an assessor.
ASSET
Any article or separable part of one's assets.
ASSEVER
See Asseverate. [Archaic]
ASSEVERATE
To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.
ASSEVERATION
The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positiveaffirmation or assertion; solemn declaration.Another abuse of the tongue I might add, -- vehement asseverationsupon slight and trivial occasions. Ray.
ASSEVERATIVE
Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively.
ASSEVERATORY
Asseverative.
ASSIBILATE
To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant. J. Peile.
ASSIBILATION
Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to -shun, duke to ditch.
ASSIDEAN
One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews,and supported the Asmoneans.
ASSIDENT
Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assidentsigns, or symptoms.
ASSIDUATE
Unremitting; assiduous. [Obs.] "Assiduate labor." Fabyan.
ASSIEGE
To besiege. [Obs.] "Assieged castles." Spenser.
ASSIENTIST
A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties tothe Assiento contract. Bancroft.
ASSIENTO
A contract or convention between Spain and other powers forfurnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp.the contract made with Great Britain in 1713.
ASSIGN
To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, andvest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit ofcreditors. To assign dower, to set out by metes and bounds thewidow's share or portion in an estate. Kent.
ASSIGNABILITY
The quality of being assignable.
ASSIGNABLE
Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated;as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignablequantity.
ASSIGNAT
One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by therevolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on thesecurity of the lands of the church and of nobles which had beenappropriated by the state.
ASSIGNEE
In England, the persons appointed, under a commission ofbankruptcy, to manage the estate of a bankrupt for the benefit of hiscreditors.
ASSIGNER
One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions.
ASSIGNOR
An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as,the assignor of a debt or other chose in action.
ASSIMILABILITY
The quality of being assimilable. [R.] Coleridge.
ASSIMILABLE
That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriatedand incorporated.
ASSIMILATION
The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substanceof the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether inplants or animals.Not conversing the body, not repairing it by assimilation, butpreserving it by ventilation. Sir T. Browne.
ASSIMILATIVE
Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilatesor causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance.
ASSIMILATORY
Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as,assimilatory organs.
ASSIMULATION
Assimilation. [Obs.] Bacon.
ASSINEGO
See Asinego.
ASSISH
Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.Such . . . appear to be of the assich kind . . . Udall.
ASSIST
To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time ofdistress; to help; to aid; to succor.Assist me, knight. I am undone! Shak.
ASSISTANT
Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistantsurgeon. [U.S.]
ASSISTANTLY
In a manner to give aid. [R.]
ASSISTER
An assistant; a helper.
ASSISTFUL
Helpful.
ASSISTIVE
Lending aid, helping.
ASSISTLESS
Without aid or help. [R.] Pope.
ASSISTOR
A assister.
ASSITHMENT
See Assythment. [Obs.]
ASSIZER
An officer who has the care or inspection of weights andmeasures, etc.
ASSIZOR
A juror.
ASSOBER
To make or keep sober. [Obs.] Gower.
ASSOCIABILITY
The quality of being associable, or capable of association;associableness. "The associability of feelings." H. Spencer.
ASSOCIABLE
Liable to be affected by sympathy with other parts; -- said oforgans, nerves, muscles, etc.The stomach, the most associable of all the organs of the animalbody. Med. Rep.
ASSOCIABLENESS
Associability.
ASSOCIATE
Connected by habit or sympathy; as, associate motions, such asoccur sympathetically, in consequence of preceding motions. E.Darwin.
ASSOCIATED
Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying;combined. Associated movements (Physiol.), consensual movements whichaccompany voluntary efforts without our consciousness. Dunglison.
ASSOCIATESHIP
The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office.
ASSOCIATIONISM
The doctrine or theory held by associationists.
ASSOCIATIONIST
One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soulby the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J. C. Mill.
ASSOCIATIVE
Having the quality of associating; tending or leading toassociation; as, the associative faculty. Hugh Miller.
ASSOCIATOR
An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme.How Pennsylvania's air agrees with Quakers, And Carolina's withassociators. Dryden.
ASSOIL
To soil; to stain. [Obs. or Poet.] Beau. & Fl.Ne'er assoil my cobwebbed shield. Wordsworth.
ASSOILMENT
Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution;acquittal.
ASSONANCE
A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last accented voweland those which follow it in one word correspond in sound with thevowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words areunlike in sound; as, calamo and platano, baby and chary.The assonance is peculiar to the Spaniard. Hallam.
ASSONANT
Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance;not consonant.
ASSONANTAL
Assonant.
ASSONATE
To correspond in sound.
ASSORT
To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fallinto a class or place. Mitford.
ASSORTED
Selected; culled.
ASSOT
To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate. [Obs.]Some ecstasy assotted had his sense. Spenser.
ASSUAGE
To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, orlessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion ortumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire.Refreshing winds the summer's heat assuage. Addison.To assuage the sorrows of a desolate old man Burke.The fount at which the panting mind assuages Her thirst of knowledge.Byron.
ASSUAGEMENT
Mitigation; abatement.
ASSUAGER
One who, or that which, assuages.
ASSUASIVE
Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing. [R.]Music her soft assuasive voice applies. Pope.
ASSUBJUGATE
To bring into subjection. [Obs.] Shak.
ASSUEFACTION
The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed;habituation. [Obs.]Custom and studies efform the soul like wax, and by assuefactionintroduce a nature. Jer. Taylor.
ASSUETUDE
Accustomedness; habit; habitual use.Assuetude of things hurtful doth make them lose their force to hurt.Bacon.
ASSUMABLE
That may be assumed.
ASSUMABLY
By way of assumption.
ASSUME
To undertake, as by a promise. Burrill.
ASSUMEDLY
By assumption.
ASSUMENT
A patch; an addition; a piece put on. [Obs.] John Lewis (1731).
ASSUMER
One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes. W. D.Whitney.
ASSUMING
Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous. Burke.
ASSUMPT
To take up; to elevate; to assume. [Obs.] Sheldon.
ASSUMPTION
The minor or second proposition in a categorical syllogism.
ASSUMPTIVE
Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized byassumption; making unwarranted claims.-- As*sump"tive*ly, adv. Assumptive arms (Her.), originally, armswhich a person had a right to assume, in consequence of an exploit;now, those assumed without sanction of the Heralds' College. PercySmith.
ASSURANCE
Any written or other legal evidence of the conveyance ofproperty; a conveyance; a deed.
ASSURE
To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay aspecified sum at death. See Insure.
ASSURED
Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting;bold to excess.
ASSUREDLY
Certainly; indubitably. "The siege assuredly I'll raise." Shak.
ASSUREDNESS
The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence.
ASSURGENCY
Act of rising.The . . . assurgency of the spirit through the body. Coleridge.
ASSURGENT
Ascending; (Bot.)
ASSURING
That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence.-- As*sur"ing*ly, adv.
ASSWAGE
See Assuage.
ASSYRIAN
Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants.-- n. A native or an inhabitant of Assyria; the language of Assyria.
ASSYRIOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies.
ASSYRIOLOGIST
One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archรฆology.
ASSYRIOLOGY
The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., ofancient Assyria.
ASSYTHMENT
Indemnification for injury; satisfaction. [Chiefly in Scotslaw]
ASTACUS
A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-waterlobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America. SeeCrawfish.
ASTARBOARD
Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller.
ASTART
Same as Astert. [Obs.]
ASTARTE
A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of Americaand Europe.
ASTATE
Estate; state. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ASTATIC
Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definiteposition or direction: thus, a suspended magnetic needle, whenrendered astatic, loses its polarity, or tendency to point in a givendirection. Astatic pair (Magnetism), a pair of magnetic needles somounted as to be nearly or quite astatic, as in some galvanometers.
ASTATICALLY
In an astatic manner.
ASTATICISM
The state of being astatic.
ASTATIZE
To render astatic.
ASTATKI
A thick liquid residuum obtained in the distillation of Russianpetroleum, much used as fuel.
ASTAY
An anchor is said to be astay, in heaving it, an acute angle isformed between the cable and the surface of the water.
ASTEISM
Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deridinganother.
ASTEL
An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads ina mine.
ASTER
A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers;starwort; Michaelmas daisy.
ASTERIAS
A genus of echinoderms.
ASTERIATED
Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire.
ASTERIDIAN
Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea.-- n.
ASTERION
The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto-mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures.
ASTERISCUS
The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of manyfishes.
ASTERISK
The figure of a star, thus,
ASTERISM
An optical property of some crystals which exhibit a star-shaped by reflected light, as star sapphire, or by transmitted light,as some mica.
ASTERNAL
Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum.
ASTEROID
A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whoseorbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called alsoplanetoids and minor planets.
ASTEROIDAL
Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.
ASTEROLEPIS
A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feetlong, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone. Hugh Miller.
ASTEROPE
One of the Pleiades; -- called also Sterope.
ASTEROPHYLLITE
A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America,now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.
ASTERT
To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun. [Obs.] Spenser.
ASTHENIC
Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak;debilitating.
ASTHENOPIA
Weakness of sight. Quain.-- As`the*nop"ic, a.
ASTHMA
A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to aspasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals,accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in thechest, a cough, and expectoration.
ASTHMA PAPER
Paper impregnated with saltpeter. The fumes from the burningpaper are often inhaled as an alleviative by asthmatics.
ASTHMATIC
A person affected with asthma.
ASTIGMATIC
Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmaticeyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses.
ASTIGMATISM
A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which therays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point,thus causing imperfect images or indistictness of vision.
ASTIPULATE
To assent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ASTIPULATION
Stipulation; agreement. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ASTIR
Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.
ASTONIED
Stunned; astonished. See Astony. [Archaic]And I astonied fell and could not pray. Mrs. Browning.
ASTONISHEDLY
In an astonished manner. [R.] Bp. Hall.
ASTONISHING
Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, anastonishing event.
ASTONY
To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay. [Archaic]The captain of the Helots . . . strake Palladius upon the side of hishead, that he reeled astonied. Sir P. Sidney.This sodeyn cas this man astonied so, That reed he wex, abayst, andal quaking. Chaucer.
ASTOOP
In a stooping or inclined position. Gay.
ASTOUND
Stunned; astounded; astonished. [Archaic] Spenser.Thus Ellen, dizzy and astound. As sudden ruin yawned around. Sir W.Scott.
ASTOUNDING
Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astoundingforce, statement, or fact.-- As*tound"ing*ly, adv.
ASTOUNDMENT
Amazement. Coleridge.
ASTRACHAN
See Astrakhan.
ASTRADDLE
In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sitastraddle a horse.
ASTRAEAN
Pertaining to the genus Astrรฆa or the family Astrรฆidรฆ.-- n.
ASTRAGAL
A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half tothree quarters of a circle.
ASTRAGALAR
Of or pertaining to the astragalus.
ASTRAGALOID
Resembling the astragalus in form.
ASTRAGALOMANCY
Divination by means of small bones or dice.
ASTRAGALUS
The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus whicharticulates with the tibia at the ankle.
ASTRAKHAN
Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; madeof an Astrakhan skin.-- n.
ASTRAL
Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry;starlike.Shines only with an astral luster. I. Taylor.Some astral forms I must invoke by prayer. Dryden.Astral lamp, an Argand lamp so constructed that no shadow is castupon the table by the flattened ring-shaped reservoir in which theoil is contained.-- Astral spirits, spirits formerly supposed to live in the heavenlybodies or the aรซrial regions, and represented in the Middle Ages asfallen angels, spirits of the dead, or spirits originating in fire.
ASTRAND
Stranded. Sir W. Scott.
ASTRAY
Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense;wandering; as, to lead one astray.Ye were as sheep going astray. 1 Pet. ii. 25.
ASTRICT
To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. SeeAstriction, 4. Burrill.
ASTRICTION
An obligation to have the grain growing on certain lands groundat a certain mill, the owner paying a toll. Bell.
ASTRICTIVE
Binding; astringent.-- n.
ASTRICTORY
Astrictive. [R.]
ASTRIDE
With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with thelegs stretched wide apart; astraddle.Placed astride upon the bars of the palisade. Sir W. Scott.Glasses with horn bows sat astride on his nose. Longfellow.
ASTRIFEROUS
Bearing stars. [R.] Blount.
ASTRINGENCY
The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting theparts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substanceswhich causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringencyof tannin.
ASTRINGENT
A medicine or other substance that produces contraction in thesoft organic textures, and checks discharges of blood, mucus, etc.External astringents are called styptics. Dunglison.
ASTRINGENTLY
In an astringent manner.
ASTRINGER
A falconer who keeps a goschawk. [Obs.] Shak. Cowell. [Writtenalso austringer.]
ASTRO-
The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.
ASTROGENY
The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens. H.Spencer.
ASTROGNOSY
The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars.Bouvier.
ASTROGONY
Same as Astrogeny.-- As`*tro*gon"ic, a.
ASTROGRAPHY
The art of describing or delineating the stars; a descriptionor mapping of the heavens.
ASTROITE
A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone. [Obs.] [Written alsoastrite and astrion.]
ASTROLABE
An instrument for observing or showing the positions of thestars. It is now disused.
ASTROLATER
A worshiper of the stars. Morley.
ASTROLATRY
The worship of the stars.
ASTROLITHOLOGY
The science of aรซrolites.
ASTROLOGIAN
An astrologer. [Obs.]
ASTROLOGIZE
To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology.
ASTROLOGY
In its etymological signification, the science of the stars;among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the artof judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs, and offoretelling events by their position and aspects.
ASTROMANTIC
Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars;astrologic. [R.] Dr. H. More.
ASTROMETEOROLOGY
The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, andstars, and the weather.-- As`*tro*me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a.-- As`tro*me`te*or*ol"o*gist, n.
ASTROMETER
An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light ofstars.
ASTROMETRY
The art of making measurements among the stars, or ofdetermining their relative magnitudes.
ASTRONOMIAN
An astrologer. [Obs.]
ASTRONOMIC
Astronomical.
ASTRONOMICAL
Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methodsor principles of astronomy.-- As`tro*nom"ic*al*ly, adv. Astronomical clock. See under Clock.-- Astronomical day. See under Day.-- Astronomical fractions, Astronomical numbers. See underSexagesimal.
ASTRONOMIZE
To study or to talk astronomy. [R.]They astronomized in caves. Sir T. Browne.
ASTROPHEL
See Astrofel. [Obs.]
ASTROPHOTOGRAPHY
The application of photography to the delineation of the sun,moon, and stars.
ASTROPHOTOMETER
A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars.
ASTROPHOTOMETRY
The determination of the brightness of stars, and also of thesun, moon, and planets. --As`tro*pho`to*met"ric*al (#), a.
ASTROPHYSICAL
Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science.
ASTROPHYSICS
The science treating of the physical characteristics of thestars and other heavenly bodies, their chemical constitution, light,heat, atmospheres, etc.
ASTROPHYTON
A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched.
ASTROSCOPE
An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whosesurface the constellations were delineated.
ASTROSCOPY
Observation of the stars. [Obs.]
ASTROTHEOLOGY
Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestialbodies. Derham.
ASTRUCTIVE
Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive. [Obs.]
ASTUCIOUS
Subtle; cunning; astute. [R.] Sir W. Scott.-- As*tu"cious*ly, adv. [R.]
ASTUCITY
Craftiness; astuteness. [R.] Carlyle.
ASTUN
To stun. [Obs.] "Breathless and astunned." Somerville.
ASTURIAN
Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.-- n.
ASTUTE
Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.
ASTYLAR
Without columns or pilasters. Weale.
ASTYLLEN
A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit orlevel.
ASUNDER
Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two;separately; into or in different pieces or places.I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it asunder. Zech. xi. 10.As wide asunder as pole and pole. Froude.
ASURA
An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants.
ASWAIL
The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India.
ASWEVE
To stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ASWING
In a state of swinging.
ASWOON
In a swoon. Chaucer.
ASWOONED
In a swoon.
ASYMMETRAL
Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical. [Obs.] D. H. More.
ASYMMETROUS
Asymmetrical. [Obs.] Barrow.
ASYMMETRY
Incommensurability. [Obs.] Barrow.
ASYMPTOTE
A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignabledistance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it.Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptotemay be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance.
ASYNARTETE
Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.-- A*syn"ar*tet"ic, a. Asynartete verse (Pros.), a verse of twomembers, having different rhythms; as when the first consists ofiambuses and the second of trochees.
ASYNCHRONOUS
Not simultaneous; not concurrent in time; --opposed tosynchronous.
ASYNDETIC
Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected byconjunctions.-- As`yn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.
ASYNDETON
A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, Iconquered. It stands opposed to polysyndeton.
ASYSTOLE
A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart.
ASYSTOLISM
The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole.
AT
Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence,nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninthhour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in oron; at the house may be in or near the house. From this originalimport are derived all the various uses of at. It expresses: -
ATABAL
A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors. Croly.
ATACAMITE
An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismaticcrystals.
ATAFTER
After. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATAGHAN
See Yataghan.
ATAKE
To overtake. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATAMAN
A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.
ATAMASCO LILY
See under Lily.
ATAVIC
Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism.
ATAXIC
Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity offunctions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power inmovements. Ataxic fever, malignant typhus fever. Pinel.
ATAZIR
The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men. [Obs.]Chaucer.
ATE
the preterit of Eat.
ATECHNIC
Without technical or artistic knowledge.Difficult to convey to the atechnic reader. Etching & Engr.
ATELES
A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and havingthe thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita.
ATELIER
A workshop; a studio.
ATELLAN
Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellanplays; farcical; ribald.-- n.
ATHALAMOUS
Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as thethallus of certain lichens.
ATHAMAUNT
Adamant. [Obs.]Written in the table of athamaunt. Chaucer.
ATHANASIAN
Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4thcentury. Athanasian creed, a formulary, confession, or exposition offaith, formerly supposed to have been drawn up by Athanasius; butthis opinion is now rejected, and the composition is ascribed by someto Hilary, bishop of Arles (5th century). It is a summary of what wascalled the orthodox faith.
ATHANOR
A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists. It was soconstructed as to maintain uniform and durable heat. Chambers.
ATHECATA
A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or notinclosed in a capsule. See Tubularian.
ATHEIZE
To render atheistic or godless. [R.]They endeavored to atheize one another. Berkeley.
ATHELING
An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or aprince of the royal family. [Written also Adeling and รtheling.]
ATHENIAN
Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece.-- n. A native or citizen of Athens.
ATHEOLOGICAL
Opposed to theology; atheistic. Bp. Montagu.
ATHEOLOGY
Antagonism to theology. Swift.
ATHERINE
A small marine fish of the family Atherinidรฆ, having a silverystripe along the sides. The European species (Atherina presbyter) isused as food. The American species (Menidia notata) is calledsilversides and sand smelt. See Silversides.
ATHERMANCY
Inability to transmit radiant; impermeability to heat. Tyndall.
ATHERMANOUS
Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous.
ATHERMOUS
Athermanous.
ATHEROID
Shaped like an ear of grain.
ATHEROMATOUS
Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma. Wiseman.
ATHETIZE
To set aside or reject as spurious, as by marking with anobelus.
ATHETOSIS
A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingersand toes.
ATHINK
To repent; to displease; to disgust. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATHLETE
One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancientGreece or Rome.
ATHLETICISM
The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism.
ATHLETICS
The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sportsof athletes.
ATHLETISM
The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of anathlete.
ATHREPSIA
Profound debility of children due to lack of food and tounhygienic surroundings. --A*threp"tic (#), a.
ATHWART
Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwartour course. Athwart hawse, across the stem of another vessel, whetherin contact or at a small distance.-- Athwart ships, across the ship from side to side, or in thatdirection; -- opposed to fore and aft.
ATIMY
Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.Mitford.
ATLANTA
A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming atthe surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod.
ATLANTES
Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support anentablature; -- called also telamones. See Caryatides. Oxf. Gloss.
ATLANTIDES
The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughtersof Atlas.
ATLAS
The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately withthe skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence the name.
ATLAS POWDER
A blasting powder or dynamite composed of nitroglycerin, woodfiber, sodium nitrate, and magnesium carbonate.
ATMIATRY
Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation.
ATMIDOMETER
An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, orsnow. Brande & C.
ATMO
The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physicalmeasurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under whichthe barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0ยบCentigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris.Sir W. Thomson.
ATMOLOGIST
One who is versed in atmology.
ATMOLOGY
That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomenaof aqueous vapor. Whewell.
ATMOLYSIS
The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequaldiffusibility by transmission through porous substances.
ATMOLYZATION
Separation by atmolysis.
ATMOLYZE
To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis.
ATMOLYZER
An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.
ATMOMETER
An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from amoist surface; an evaporometer. Huxley.
ATMOSPHERICALLY
In relation to the atmosphere.
ATMOSPHEROLOGY
The science or a treatise on the atmosphere.
ATOKOUS
Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certainannelids.
ATOLE
A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like.[Sp. Amer.]
ATOLL
A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef,partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; alagoon island.
ATOM
The smallest particle of matter that can enter intocombination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule.
ATOMICALLY
In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy.
ATOMICIAN
An atomist. [R.]
ATOMICISM
Atomism. [Obs.]
ATOMICITY
Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (alater use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. SeeValence.
ATOMISM
The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic.
ATOMIST
One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory. Locke.
ATOMISTIC
Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism. [R.]It is the object of the mechanical atomistic philosophy to confoundsynthesis with synartesis. Coleridge.
ATOMIZATION
The reduction of fluids into fine spray.
ATOMIZE
To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray.The liquids in the form of spray are said to be pulverized,nebulized, or atomized. Dunglison.
ATOMIZER
One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument forreducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming.
ATOMOLOGY
The doctrine of atoms. Cudworth.
ATOMY
An atom; a mite; a pigmy.
ATONABLE
Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.
ATONER
One who makes atonement.
ATONES
Etym: [See At one.] [Obs.]Down he fell atones as a stone. Chaucer.
ATONIC
Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonicdisease.
ATONY
Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ,especially of such as are contractile.
ATOP
On or at the top. Milton.
ATRABILARIAN
A person much given to melancholy; a hypochondriac. I.Disraeli.
ATRABILIAR
Melancholy; atrabilious.
ATRABILIOUS
Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary. Dunglision.A hard-faced, atrabilious, earnest-eyed race. Lowell.He was constitutionally atrabilious and scornful. Froude.
ATRAMENTACEOUS
Black, like ink; inky; atramental. [Obs.] Derham.
ATRAMENTARIOUS
Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas,green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink.
ATREDE
To surpass in council. [Obs.]Men may the olde atrenne, but hat atrede. Chaucer.
ATRENNE
To outrun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATRESIA
Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body;imperforation.
ATRIAL
Of or pertaining to an atrium.
ATRIUM
The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct fromthe auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of theheart.
ATROCHA
A kind of chรฆtopod larva in which no circles of cilia aredeveloped.
ATROPHIC
Relating to atrophy.
ATROPHIED
Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested indevelopment at a very early stage; rudimentary.
ATROPHY
A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk orslow emaciation of the body or of any part. Milton.
ATROPIA
Same as Atropine.
ATROPINE
A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from theAtropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium,or thorn apple. It is remarkable for its power in dilating the pupilof the eye. Called also daturine.
ATROPISM
A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna.
ATROPOUS
Not inverted; orthotropous.
ATROUS
Coal-black; very black.
ATRYPA
A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurianlimestones.
ATTABAL
See Atabal.
ATTACCA
Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to showthat the next is to follow immediately, without any pause.
ATTACH
An attachment. [Obs.] Pope.
ATTACHABLE
Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ orprecept.
ATTACHE
One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suiteor staff. Specifically: One attached to an embassy.
ATTACK
To make an onset or attack.
ATTACKABLE
Capable of being attacked.
ATTACKER
One who attacks.
ATTAGHAN
See Yataghan.
ATTAIN
Attainment. [Obs.]
ATTAINABILITY
The quality of being attainable; attainbleness.
ATTAINABLENESS
The quality of being attainable; attainability.
ATTAINT
To find guilty; to convict; -- said esp. of a jury on trial forgiving a false verdict. [Obs.]Upon sufficient proof attainted of some open act by men of his owncondition. Blackstone.
ATTAINTMENT
Attainder; attainture; conviction.
ATTAINTURE
Attainder; disgrace.
ATTAL
Same as Attle.
ATTAMINATE
To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate. [Obs.] Blount.
ATTAR
A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrantessential oil obtained from the petals of roses. [Also written ottoand ottar.]
ATTASK
To take to task; to blame. Shak.
ATTASTE
To taste or cause to taste. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATTE
At the. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATTEMPERAMENT
A tempering, or mixing in due proportion.
ATTEMPERANCE
Temperance; attemperament. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATTEMPERATE
Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.Hope must be . . . attemperate to the promise. Hammond.
ATTEMPERATION
The act of attempering or regulating. [Archaic] Bacon.
ATTEMPERLY
Temperately. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATTEMPERMENT
Attemperament.
ATTEMPT
To make an attempt; -- with upon. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ATTEMPTABLE
Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked. Shak.
ATTEMPTIVE
Disposed to attempt; adventurous. [Obs.] Daniel.
ATTENDANCY
The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; anattendant. [Obs.]
ATTENDANT
Depending on, or owing duty or service to; as, the widowattendant to the heir. Cowell. Attendant keys (Mus.), the keys orscales most nearly related to, or having most in common with, theprincipal key; those, namely, of its fifth above, or dominant, itsfifth below (fourth above), or subdominant, and its relative minor ormajor.
ATTENDEMENT
Intent. [Obs.] Spenser.
ATTENDER
One who, or that which, attends.
ATTENDMENT
An attendant circumstance. [Obs.]The uncomfortable attendments of hell. Sir T. Browne.
ATTENT
Attentive; heedful. [Archaic]Let thine ears be attent unto the prayer. 2 Chron. vi. 40.
ATTENTLY
Attentively. [Obs.] Barrow.
ATTENUANT
Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense andviscid; diluent.-- n. (Med.)
ATTENUATE
To become thin, slender, or fine; to grow less; to lessen.The attention attenuates as its sphere contracts. Coleridge.
ATTER
Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore. [Obs.] Holland.
ATTERRATE
To fill up with alluvial earth. [Obs.] Ray.
ATTERRATION
The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land withalluvial earth. [Obs.]
ATTEST
Witness; testimony; attestation. [R.]The attest of eyes and ears. Shak.
ATTESTATION
The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or officialdeclaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. Thetruth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the properofficer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is anattestation.
ATTESTATIVE
Of the nature of attestation.
ATTESTIVE
Attesting; furnishing evidence.
ATTIC
Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, itsprincipal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic ofthe Athenians; classical; refined. Attic base (Arch.), a peculiarform of molded base for a column or pilaster, described by Vitruvius,applied under the Roman Empire to the Ionic and Corinthian and "RomanDoric" orders, and imitated by the architects of the Renaissance.-- Attic faith, inviolable faith.-- Attic purity, special purity of language.-- Attic salt, Attic wit, a poignant, delicate wit, peculiar to theAthenians.-- Attic story. See Attic, n.-- Attic style, a style pure and elegant.
ATTICAL
Attic. [Obs.] Hammond.
ATTICIZE
To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc.,of Attica.
ATTIGUOUS
Touching; bordering; contiguous. [Obs.] -- At*tig"u*ous*ness,n. [Obs.]
ATTINGE
To touch lightly. [Obs.] Coles.
ATTIRE
To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant orsplendid garments.Finely attired in a robe of white. Shak.With the linen miter shall he be attired. Lev. xvi. 4.
ATTIRED
Provided with antlers, as a stag.
ATTIREMENT
Attire; adornment.
ATTIRER
One who attires.
ATTITUDE
The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.
ATTITUDINAL
Relating to attitude.
ATTITUDINARIAN
One who attitudinizes; a posture maker.
ATTITUDINARIANISM
A practicing of attitudes; posture making.
ATTITUDINIZE
To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose.Maria, who is the most picturesque figure, was put to attitudinize atthe harp. Hannah More.
ATTITUDINIZER
One who practices attitudes.
ATTLE
Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing littleor no ore. Weale.
ATTOLLENT
Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle. Derham.
ATTONCE
At once; together. [Obs.] Spenser.
ATTONE
See At one. [Obs.]
ATTORN
To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord toanother. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, uponthe alienation of the estate. Blackstone.
ATTORNEY
To perform by proxy; to employ as a proxy. [Obs.] Shak.
ATTORNEY-GENERAL
The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in alllitigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advisethis supreme executive whenever required. Wharton.
ATTORNEYISM
The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys.
ATTORNEYSHIP
The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another.Shak.
ATTORNMENT
The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which heconsents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord orsuperior, and transfers to him his homage and service; the agreementof a tenant to acknowledge the purchaser of the estate as hislandlord. Burrill. Blackstone.
ATTRACT
Attraction. [Obs.] Hudibras.
ATTRACTABILITY
The quality or fact of being attractable. Sir W. Jones.
ATTRACTABLE
Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction.-- At*tract"a*ble*ness, n.
ATTRACTER
One who, or that which, attracts.
ATTRACTILE
Having power to attract.
ATTRACTING
That attracts.-- At*tract"ing*ly, adv.
ATTRACTION
An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything toitself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies orultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to producetheir cohesion or combination, and conversely resisting separation.
ATTRACTIVE
That which attracts or draws; an attraction; an allurement.Speaks nothing but attractives and invitation. South.
ATTRACTIVITY
The quality or degree of attractive power.
ATTRACTOR
One who, or that which, attracts. Sir T. Browne
ATTRAHENT
Attracting; drawing; attractive.
ATTRAP
To entrap; to insnare. [Obs.] Grafton.
ATTRECTATION
Frequent handling or touching. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
ATTRIBUTABLE
Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable.Errors . . . attributable to carelessness. J. D. Hooker.
ATTRIBUTE
To ascribe; to consider (something) as due or appropriate (to);to refer, as an effect to a cause; to impute; to assign; to consideras belonging (to).We attribute nothing to God that hath any repugnancy or contradictionin it. Abp. Tillotson.The merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exactperformer. Shak.
ATTRIBUTIVE
Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning anattribute; of the nature of an attribute.
ATTRIBUTIVELY
In an attributive manner.
ATTRITE
Repentant from fear of punishment; having attrition of grieffor sin; -- opposed to contrite.
ATTRITION
Grief for sin arising only from fear of punishment or feelingsof shame. See Contrition. Wallis.
ATTRITUS
Matter pulverized by attrition.
ATTRY
Poisonous; malignant; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ATWAIN
In twain; asunder. [Obs. or Poetic] "Cuts atwain the knots."Tennyson.
ATWEEN
Between. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson.
ATWIRL
Twisted; distorted; awry. [R.] Halliwell.
ATWITE
To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid. [Obs.]
ATWIXT
Betwixt. [Obs.] Spenser.
ATWO
In two; in twain; asunder. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AU FAIT
Expert; skillful; well instructed.
AU FOND
At bottom; fundamentally; essentially.
AU GRATIN
With a crust made by browning in the oven; as, spaghetti may beserved au gratin.
AU REVOIR
Good-by until we meet again.
AUBADE
An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from anevening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive ofmorning. Grove.The crowing cock . . . Sang his aubade with lusty voice and clear.Longfellow.
AUBAINE
Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized. Littrรฉ.Droit d'aubaine (, the right, formerly possessed by the king ofFrance, to all the personal property of which an alien diedpossessed. It was abolished in 1819. Bouvier.
AUBE
An alb. [Obs.] Fuller.
AUBERGE
An inn. Beau. & Fl.
AUBIN
A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; --commonly called a Canterbury gallop.
AUCHENIUM
The part of the neck nearest the back.
AUCTARY
That which is superadded; augmentation. [Obs.] Baxter.
AUCTION
To sell by auction.
AUCTION BRIDGE
A variety of the game of bridge in which the players, beginningwith the dealer, bid for the privilege of naming the trump andplaying with the dummy for that deal, there being heavy penalties fora player's failure to make good his bid. The score value of eachtrick more than six taken by the successful bidder is as follows:when the trump is spades, 2; clubs, 6; diamonds, 7; hearts, 8; royalspades (lilies), 9; and when the deal is played with no trump, 10.
AUCTION PITCH
A game of cards in which the players bid for the privilege ofdetermining or "pitching" the trump suit.  R. F. Foster.
AUCTIONARY
Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer. [R.]With auctionary hammer in thy hand. Dryden.
AUCTIONEER
A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is todispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or bestbidder.
AUCUPATION
Birdcatching; fowling. [Obs.] Blount.
AUDACIOUSLY
In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently.
AUDACIOUSNESS
The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity.
AUDIBILITY
The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audiblecapacity.
AUDIBLE
Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actuallyheard; as, an audible voice or whisper.
AUDIBLENESS
The quality of being audible.
AUDIBLY
So as to be heard.
AUDIENT
Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls. Mrs. Browning.
AUDILE
One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or ofinternal discourse rather than of visual or motor images.
AUDIOMETER
An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged andrecorded on a scale.
AUDIPHONE
An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound tothe auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or lessdistinctly; a dentiphone.
AUDIT
To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to auditthe accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit dependingin court.
AUDITA QUERELA
A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment isrecovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequentlyaccrued which could not have been availed of to prevent suchjudgment. Wharton.
AUDITION
The act of hearing or listening; hearing.Audition may be active or passive; hence the difference betweenlistening and simple hearing. Dunglison.
AUDITIVE
Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory. [R.] Cotgrave.
AUDITORIAL
Auditory. [R.]
AUDITORIUM
The part of a church, theater, or other public building,assigned to the audience.
AUDITORSHIP
The office or function of auditor.
AUDITORY
Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs ofhearing; as, the auditory nerve. See Ear. Auditory canal (Anat.), thetube from the auditory meatus or opening of the ear to the tympanicmembrane.
AUDITRESS
A female hearer. Milton.
AUDITUAL
Auditory. [R.] Coleridge.
AUF
A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; adeformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf. [Obs.] Drayton.
AUFKLARUNG
A philosophic movement of the 18th century characterized by alively questioning of authority, keen interest in matters of politicsand general culture, and an emphasis on empirical method in science.It received its impetus from the unsystematic but vigorous skepticismof Pierre Bayle, the physical doctrines of Newton, and theepistemological theories of Locke, in the preceding century. Itschief center was in France, where it gave rise to the skepticism ofVoltaire , the naturalism of Rousseau, the sensationalism ofCondillac, and the publication of the "Encyclopedia" by D'Alembertand Diderot. In Germany, Lessing, Mendelssohn, and Herder wererepresentative thinkers, while the political doctrines of the leadersof the American Revolution and the speculations of Benjamin Franklinand Thomas Paine represented the movement in America.
AUGEAN
Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stablecontained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Herculescleansed it in a single day.
AUGET
A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery,or place where the slow match is applied. Knight.
AUGHT
Anything; any part. [Also written ought.]There failed not aught of any good thing which the Lord has spoken.Josh. xxi. 45But go, my son, and see if aught be wanting. Addison.
AUGITE
A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color,occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead ofthe general term pyroxene.
AUGITIC
Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as aprincipal constituent; as, augitic rocks.
AUGMENT
To add an augment to.
AUGMENTABLE
Capable of augmentation. Walsh.
AUGMENTATION
A additional charge to a coat of arms, given as a mark ofhonor. Cussans.
AUGMENTATIVE
Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressingaugmentation.-- Aug*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.
AUGMENTER
One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.
AUGRIM
See Algorism. [Obs.] Chaucer. Augrim stones, pebbles formerlyused in numeration.-- Noumbres of Augrim, Arabic numerals. Chaucer.
AUGUR
An official diviner who foretold events by the singing,chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omensderived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds,or unusual occurrences.
AUGURAL
Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous;significant; as, an augural staff; augural books. "Portents augural."Cowper.
AUGURATE
To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict. [Obs.] C.Middleton.
AUGURATION
The practice of augury.
AUGURER
An augur. [Obs.] Shak.
AUGURIAL
Relating to augurs or to augury. Sir T. Browne.
AUGURIST
An augur. [R.]
AUGURIZE
To augur. [Obs.] Blount.
AUGUROUS
Full of augury; foreboding. [Obs.] "Augurous hearts." Chapman.
AUGURSHIP
The office, or period of office, of an augur. Bacon.
AUGUST
Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; havingan aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; havingexalted birth, character, state, or authority. "Forms august." Pope."August in visage." Dryden. "To shed that august blood." Macaulay.So beautiful and so august a spectacle. Burke.To mingle with a body so august. Byron.
AUGUSTAN
A member of one of the religious orders called after St.Augustine; an Austin friar.
AUGUSTINIAN
Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in NorthernAfrica (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines. Augustinian canons,an order of monks once popular in England and Ireland; -- called alsoregular canons of St. Austin, and black canons.-- Augustinian hermits or Austin friars, an order of friarsestablished in 1265 by Pope Alexander IV. It was introduced into theUnited States from Ireland in 1790.-- Augustinian nuns, an order of nuns following the rule of St.Augustine.-- Augustinian rule, a rule for religious communities based upon the109th letter of St. Augustine, and adopted by the Augustinian orders.
AUGUSTLY
In an august manner.
AUGUSTNESS
The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur;magnificence.
AUK
A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of thefamily Alcidรฆ. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (or Plautus)impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda. See Puffin, Guillemot,and Murre.
AUKWARD
See Awkward. [Obs.]
AULARIAN
Relating to a hall.
AULD
Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh. [Scot. &Prov. Eng.]
AULD LANG SYNE
A Scottish phrase used in recalling recollections of times longsince past. "The days of auld lang syne."
AULETIC
Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper. [R.] Ash.
AULIC
Pertaining to a royal court.Ecclesiastical wealth and aulic dignities. Landor.Aulic council (Hist.), a supreme court of the old German empire;properly the supreme court of the emperor. It ceased at the death ofeach emperor, and was renewed by his successor. It became extinctwhen the German empire was dissolved, in 1806. The term is nowapplied to a council of the war department of the Austrian empire,and the members of different provincial chanceries of that empire arecalled aulic councilors. P. Cyc.
AULN
An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.
AUM
Same as Aam.
AUMAIL
To figure or variegate. [Obs.] Spenser.
AUMBRY
Same as Ambry.
AUMERY
A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if aplace for alms.
AUNCEL
A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerlyused in England. Halliwell.
AUNCETRY
Ancestry. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AUNE
A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (atParis, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter.
AUNTER
Adventure; hap. [Obs.] In aunters, perchance.
AUNTROUS
Adventurous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AURA
The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air,rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitorysymptom of epilepsy or hysterics. Electric ~, a supposed electricfluid, emanating from an electrified body, and forming a masssurrounding it, called the electric atmosphere. See Atmosphere, 2.
AURAL
Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura.
AURANTIACEOUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceรฆ, an order ofplants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is thetype.
AURATE
A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate orpotassium.
AURATED
Combined with auric acid.
AUREATE
Golden; gilded. Skelton.
AURELIAN
Of or pertaining to the aurelia.
AURIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of thosecompounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as,auric oxide; auric chloride.
AURICHALCEOUS
Brass-colored.
AURICHALCITE
A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green orblue crystalline aggregations. It yields a kind of brass onreduction.
AURICLE
An angular or ear-shaped lobe.
AURICLED
Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricledleaves.
AURICULAR
Pertaining to the auricles of the heart. Auricular finger, thelittle finger; so called because it can be readily introduced intothe ear passage.
AURICULARIA
A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
AURICULARLY
In an auricular manner.
AURICULARS
A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear ofbirds.
AURIFEROUS
Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.Whence many a bursting stream auriferous plays. Thomson.~= pyrites, iron pyrites (iron disulphide), containing some golddisseminated through it.
AURIFLAMME
See Oriflamme.
AURIFORM
Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped.
AURIGA
The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northernhemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains thebright star Capella.
AURIGAL
Of or pertaining to a chariot. [R.]
AURIGATION
The act of driving a chariot or a carriage. [R.] De Quincey.
AURIGRAPHY
The art of writing with or in gold.
AURILAVE
An instrument for cleansing the ear, consisting of a smallpiece of sponge on an ivory or bone handle.
AURIN
A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, incommerce, yellow coralin.
AURIPHRYGIATE
Embroidered or decorated with gold. [R.] Southey.
AURIPIGMENT
See Orpiment. [Obs.]
AURISCALP
An earpick.
AURISCOPE
An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.
AURISCOPY
Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope.
AURIST
One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.
AURITED
Having lobes like the ear; auriculate.
AURIVOROUS
Gold-devouring. [R.] H. Walpole.
AUROCEPHALOUS
Having a gold-colored head.
AUROCHLORIDE
The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride ofanother metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.
AUROCHS
The European bison (Bison bonasus, or Europรฆus), once widelydistributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in theLithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus. It is distinct fromthe Urus of Cรฆsar, with which it has often been confused.
AUROCYANIDE
A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; --called also cyanaurate.
AURORA
The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess ofthe morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, ina chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew.
AURORAL
Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or thenorthern lights); rosy.Her cheeks suffused with an auroral blush. Longfellow.
AUROUS
Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of thosecompounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as,aurous oxide.
AURUM
Gold. Aurum fulminans (See Fulminate.-- Aurum mosaicum (See Mosaic.
AUSCULT
To auscultate.
AUSCULTATE
To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.
AUSCULTATION
An examination by listening either directly with the ear(immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as theabdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate ~), in order to distinguishsounds recognized as a sign of health or of disease.
AUSCULTATOR
One who practices auscultation.
AUSCULTATORY
Of or pertaining to auscultation. Dunglison.
AUSONIAN
Italian. Milton.
AUSPICATE
Auspicious. [Obs.] Holland.
AUSPICIAL
Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious. [R.]
AUSTER
The south wind. Pope.
AUSTERELY
Severely; rigidly; sternly.A doctrine austerely logical. Macaulay.
AUSTIN
Augustinian; as, Austin friars.
AUSTRAL
Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land;austral ocean. Austral signs (Astron.), the last six signs of thezodiac, or those south of the equator.
AUSTRALASIAN
Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.-- n.
AUSTRALIAN
Of or pertaining to Australia.-- n.
AUSTRALIAN BALLOT
A system of balloting or voting in public elections, originallyused in South Australia, in which there is such an arrangement forpolling votes that secrecy is compulsorily maintained, and the ballotused is an official ballot printed and distributed by the government.
AUSTRALIZE
To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet. [Obs.]They [magnets] do septentrionate at one extreme, and australize atanother. Sir T. Browne.
AUSTRIAN
Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.-- n.
AUSTRINE
Southern; southerly; austral. [Obs.] Bailey.
AUSTRO-HUNGARIAN
Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria andHungary.
AUSTROMANCY
Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of thewinds.
AUSZUG
See Army organization, Switzerland.
AUTARCHY
Self-sufficiency. [Obs.] Milton.
AUTHENTIC
Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.
AUTHENTICAL
Authentic. [Archaic]
AUTHENTICALLY
In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuineauthority.
AUTHENTICALNESS
The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Barrow.
AUTHENTICLY
Authentically.
AUTHENTICNESS
The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Hammond.
AUTHENTICS
A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian,by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authencity.Bouvier.
AUTHORESS
A female author. Glover.
AUTHORIAL
Of or pertaining to an author. "The authorial Hare.
AUTHORISM
Authoriship. [R.]
AUTHORIZABLE
Capable of being authorized. Hammond.
AUTHORIZATION
The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment byauthority; sanction or warrant.The authorization of laws. Motley.A special authorization from the chief. Merivale.
AUTHORIZED
, to rely for authority. [Obs.]Authorizing himself, for the most part, upon other histories. Sir P.Sidney.
AUTHORIZER
One who authorizes.
AUTHORLESS
Without an author; without authority; anonymous.
AUTHORLY
Authorial. [R.] Cowper.
AUTHOTYPE
A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph. Knight.
AUTO-
A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one'sown, itself, its own.
AUTO-DE-FE
Same as Auto-da-fรฉ.
AUTO-INFECTION
Poisoning caused by a virus that originates and develops in theorganism itself.
AUTO-INOCULATION
Inoculation of a person with virus from his own body.
AUTO-INTOXICATION
Poisoning, or the state of being poisoned, from toxicsubstances produced within the body; autotoxรฆmia.
AUTOBIOGRAPHER
One who writers his own life or biography.
AUTOBIOGRAPHIST
One who writes his own life; an autobiographer. [R.]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's lifewritten by one's self.
AUTOCATALYSIS
Self-catalysis; catalysis of a substance by one of its ownproducts, as of silver oxide by the silver formed by reduction of asmall portion of it. -- Au`to*cat`a*lyt"ic (#), a.
AUTOCEPHALOUS
Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchaljurisdiction, as certain Greek churches.
AUTOCHRONOGRAPH
An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printingof time. Knight.
AUTOCHTHON
Aboriginal; indigenous; native.
AUTOCHTHONISM
The state of being autochthonal.
AUTOCHTHONY
An aboriginal or autochthonous condition.
AUTOCLASTIC
Broken in place; -- said of rocks having a broken or brecciatedstructure due to crushing, in contrast to those of brecciatedmaterials brought from a distance.
AUTOCLAVE
A kind of French stewpan with a steamtight lid. Knight.
AUTOCOHERER
A self-restoring coherer, as a microphonic detector.
AUTOCRACY
The action of the vital principle, or of the instinctivepowers, toward the preservation of the individual; also, the vitalprinciple. [In this sense, written also autocrasy.] Dunglison.
AUTOCRAT
Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute;holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.-- Au`to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
AUTOCRATOR
An autocrat. [Archaic]
AUTOCRATORICAL
Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
AUTOCRATRIX
A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a titlegiven to the empresses of Russia.
AUTOCRATSHIP
The office or dignity of an autocrat.
AUTODIDACT
One who is self-taught; an automath.
AUTODYNAMIC
Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of thenature of a water-ram.
AUTOECIOUS
Passing through all its stages on one host, as certainparasitic fungi; -- contrasted with heterocious.
AUTOECISM
Quality of being autocious.
AUTOFECUNDATION
Self-impregnation. Darwin.
AUTOGAMOUS
Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.
AUTOGAMY
Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived fromthe same blossom as the pistil acted upon.
AUTOGENEAL
Self-produced; autogenous.
AUTOGENESIS
Spontaneous generation.
AUTOGENETIC
Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.
AUTOGENETIC DRAINAGE
A system of natural drainage developed by the constituentstreams through headwater erosion.
AUTOGENETIC TOPOGRAPHY
A system of land forms produced by the free action of rain andstreams on rocks of uniform texture.
AUTOGENOUS
Self-generated; produced independently.
AUTOGENOUSLY
In an autogenous manner; spontaneously.
AUTOGRAPH
That which is written with one's own hand; an originalmanuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting.
AUTOGRAPHAL
Autographic. [Obs.]
AUTOHARP
A zitherlike musical instrument, provided with dampers which,when depressed, deaden some strings, leaving free others that form achord.
AUTOHYPNOTIC
Pert. to autohypnotism; self-hypnotizing. -- n.
AUTOHYPNOTISM
Hypnotism of one's self by concentration of the attention onsome object or idea.
AUTOKINESIS
Spontaneous or voluntary movement; movement due to an internalcause.
AUTOKINETIC
Self-moving; moving automatically.
AUTOKINETIC SYSTEM
In fire-alarm telegraphy, a system so arranged that when onealarm is being transmitted, no other alarm, sent in from anotherpoint, will be transmitted until after the first alarm has beendisposed of.
AUTOLATRY
Self-worship. Farrar.
AUTOMATH
One who is self-taught. [R.] Young.
AUTOMATICALLY
In an automatic manner.
AUTOMATISM
The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self-moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action. (Metaph.) Atheory as to the activity of matter.
AUTOMATOUS
Automatic. [Obs.] "Automatous organs." Sir T. Browne.
AUTOMIXTE SYSTEM
A system (devised by Henri Pieper, a Belgian) of drivingautomobiles employing a gasoline engine and an auxiliary reversibledynamo. When there is an excess of power the dynamo is driven by theengine so as to charge a small storage battery; when there is adeficiency of power the dynamo reverses and acts as an auxiliarymotor. Sometimes called Pieper system. -- Automixte car, etc.
AUTOMOBILE
An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelledvehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway. Automobiles areusually propelled by internal combustion engines (using volatileinflammable liquids, as gasoline or petrol, alcohol, naphtha, etc.),steam engines, or electric motors. The power of the driving motorvaries from about 4 to 50 H. P. for ordinary vehicles, ranging fromthe run-about to the touring car, up to as high as 200 H. P. forspecially built racing cars. Automobiles are also commonly, andgenerally in British usage, called motor cars.
AUTOMOBILISM
The use of automobiles, or the practices, methods, or the like,of those who use them. -- Au`to*mo"bil*ist, n.
AUTOMORPHIC
Patterned after one's self.The conception which any one frames of another's mind is more or lessafter the pattern of his own mind, -- is automorphic. H. Spenser.
AUTOMORPHISM
Automorphic characterization. H. Spenser.
AUTONOMASY
The use of a word of common or general signification for thename of a particular thing; as, "He has gone to town," for, "He hasgone to London."
AUTONOMIC
Having the power of self-government; autonomous. Hickok.
AUTONOMIST
One who advocates autonomy.
AUTONOMOUS
Having independent existence or laws.
AUTONOMY
The sovereignty of reason in the sphere of morals; or man'spower, as possessed of reason, to give law to himself. In this,according to Kant, consist the true nature and only possible proof ofliberty. Fleming.
AUTOPATHIC
Dependent upon, or due or relating to, the structure andcharacteristics of the diseased organism; endopathic; as, anautopathic disease; an autopathic theory of diseases.
AUTOPHAGI
Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food assoon as hatched.
AUTOPHAGY
The feeding of the body upon itself, as in fasting; nutritionby consumption of one's own tissues.
AUTOPHOBY
Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical. [R.] Hare.
AUTOPHONY
An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone ofthe observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close tothe patient's chest. Dunglison.
AUTOPLASTIC
Of or pertaining to autoplasty.
AUTOPLASTY
The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a pieceof healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply thedeficiency caused by disease or wounds.
AUTOPNEUMATIC
Acting or moving automatically by means of compressed air.
AUTOPSORIN
That which is given under the doctrine of administering apatient's own virus.
AUTOPSY
Dissection of a dead body, for the purpose of ascertaining thecause, seat, or nature of a disease; a post-mortem examination.
AUTOPTICALLY
By means of ocular view, or one's own observation. Sir T.Browne.
AUTOSTABILITY
Automatic stability; also, inherent stability. An aรซroplane isinherently stable if it keeps in steady poise by virtue of its shapeand proportions alone; it is automatically stable if it keeps insteady poise by means of self-operative mechanism.
AUTOSTYLIC
Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium,as in the skulls of the Amphibia.
AUTOSUGGESTION
Self-suggestion as distinguished from suggestion coming fromanother, esp. in hypnotism. Autosuggestion is characteristic ofcertain mental conditions in which expectant belief tends to producedisturbance of function of one or more organs.
AUTOTHEIST
One given to self-worship. [R.]
AUTOTOXIC
Pertaining to, or causing, autotoxรฆmia.
AUTOTOXICATION
Same as Auto-intoxication.
AUTOTRANSFORMER
A transformer in which part of the primary winding is used as asecondary winding, or vice versa; -- called also a compensator orbalancing coil.
AUTOTROPHIC
Capable of self-nourishment; -- said of all plants in whichphotosynthetic activity takes place, as opposed to parasitism orsaprophytism.
AUTOTROPISM
The tendency of plant organs to grow in a straight line whenuninfluenced by external stimuli.
AUTOTYPOGRAPHY
A process resembling "nature printing," by which drawingsexecuted on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from whichthe printing is done as from copperplate.
AUTOTYPY
The art or process of making autotypes.
AUTUNITE
A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring intabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales. H., 2-2.5. Sp. gr., 3.05-3.19.
AUXANOMETER
An instrument to measure the growth of plants. Goodale.
AUXESIS
A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for theproper word; amplification; hyperbole.
AUXETIC
Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying.
AUXETOPHONE
A pneumatic reproducer for a phonograph, controlled by therecording stylus on the principle of the relay. It produces muchclearer and louder tones than does the ordinary vibrating diskreproducer.
AUXILIAR
Auxiliary. [Archaic]The auxiliar troops and Trojan hosts appear. Pope.
AUXILIARLY
By way of help. Harris.
AUXILIARY
Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary;as auxiliary troops. Auxiliary scales (Mus.), the scales of relativeor attendant keys. See under Attendant, a.-- Auxiliary verbs (Gram.). See Auxiliary, n., 3.
AUXILIATORY
Auxiliary; helping. [Obs.]
AUXOMETER
An instrument for measuring the magnifying power of a lens orsystem of lenses.
AVA
Same as Kava. Johnston.
AVADAVAT
Same as Amadavat.
AVAIL
To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to havestrength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as,the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat thesuit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to checkthe disease. "What signs avail " Milton.Words avail very little with me, young man. Sir W. Scott.
AVAILABLY
In an available manner; profitably; advantageously;efficaciously.
AVAILMENT
Profit; advantage. [Obs.]
AVALE
To descend; to fall; to dismount. [Obs.]And from their sweaty courses did avale. Spenser.
AVANT
The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.
AVANT-COURIER
A person dispatched before another person or company, to givenotice of his or their approach.
AVANT-GUARD
The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard.
AVARICIOUS
Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous ofaccumulating property.
AVAROUS
Avaricious. [Obs.]
AVAST
Cease; stop; stay. "Avast heaving." Totten.
AVATAR
The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a manor an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.
AVAUNCE
To advance; to profit. Chaucer.
AVAUNT
Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalentto the phrase "Get thee gone."
AVAUNTOUR
A boaster. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AVEL
To pull away. [Obs.]Yet are not these parts avelled. Sir T. Browne.
AVELLANE
In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.
AVENA
A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa);the oat grasses.
AVENACEOUS
Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses.
AVENAGE
A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu ofrent. Jacob.
AVENALIN
A crystalline globulin, contained in oat kernels, very similarin composition to excelsin, but different in reactions andcrystalline form.
AVENER
An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provideoats for the horses. [Obs.]
AVENGE
To take vengeance. Levit. xix. 18.
AVENGEANCE
Vengeance. [Obs.]
AVENGEFUL
Vengeful. [Obs.] Spenser.
AVENGEMENT
The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.[R.] Milton.
AVENGERESS
A female avenger. [Obs.] Spenser.
AVENIOUS
Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants.
AVENOR
See Avener. [Obs.]
AVENS
A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet.
AVENTAIL
The movable front to a helmet; the ventail.
AVENTINE
Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on whichRome stood. Bryant.
AVENTRE
To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear. [Obs.] Spenser.
AVENTURE
A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as bydrowning, or falling into the fire.
AVENTURINE
A variety of translucent quartz, spangled throughout withscales of yellow mica. ~= feldspar, a variety of oligoclase withinternal firelike reflections due to the presence of minute crystals,probably of hematite; sunstone.
AVER
A work horse, or working ox. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.]
AVERAGE
That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by thework beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.
AVERCORN
A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses bytheir tenants or farmers. Kennet.
AVERMENT
A positive statement of facts; an allegation; an offer tojustify or prove what is alleged.
AVERPENNY
Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average.
AVERROISM
The tenets of the Averroists.
AVERROIST
One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared inItaly before the restoration of learning; so denominated fromAverroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher. He held thedoctrine of monopsychism.
AVERRUNCATOR
An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or ablade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.
AVERSATION
A turning from with dislike; aversion. [Obs.or Archaic]Some men have a natural aversation to some vices or virtues, and anatural affection to others. Jer. Taylor.
AVERSE
To turn away. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
AVERSENESS
The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.
AVERT
To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object;to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how canthe danger be averted "To avert his ire." Milton.When atheists and profane persons do hear of so many discordant andcontrary opinions in religion, it doth avert them from the church.Bacon.Till ardent prayer averts the public woe. Prior.
AVERTED
Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended;unpropitious.Who scornful pass it with averted eye. Keble.
AVERTER
One who, or that which, averts.
AVERTIBLE
Capable of being averted; preventable.
AVERTIMENT
Advertisement. [Obs.]
AVES
The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.
AVESTA
The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.
AVESTAN
Of or pertaining to the Avesta or the language of the Avesta. --n.
AVIADO
One who works a mine with means provided by another. [Sp. Amer.& Southwestern U. S.]
AVIAN
Of or instrument to birds.
AVIARY
A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keepingbirds confined; a bird house.Lincolnshire may be termed the aviary of England. Fuller.
AVIATE
To fly, or navigate the air, in an aรซroplane or heavier-than-air flying machine. [Colloq.]
AVIATION
The art or science of flying.
AVIATOR
A woman aviator.
AVICULA
A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied tothe pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of thetypical species to a bird.
AVICULAR
Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.
AVICULARIA
See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, oftenhaving the shape of a bird's bill.
AVICULTURE
Rearing and care of birds.
AVID
Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy. "Avid of gold, yet greedierof renown." Southey.
AVIDIOUS
Avid.
AVIDIOUSLY
Eagerly; greedily.
AVIDITY
Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire;as, to eat with avidity.His books were received and read with avidity. Milward.
AVIE
Emulously. [Obs.]
AVIETTE
A heavier-than-air flying machine in which the motive power isfurnished solely by the aviator.
AVIFAUNA
The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.
AVIGATO
See Avocado.
AVIGNON BERRY
The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species ofthe same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. Itis used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also Frenchberry.
AVILE
To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate. [Obs.]Want makes us know the price of what we avile. B. Jonson.
AVIS
Advice; opinion; deliberation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AVISE
To consider; to reflect. [Obs.]
AVISEFUL
Watchful; circumspect. [Obs.]With sharp, aviseful eye. Spenser.
AVISELY
Advisedly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AVISEMENT
Advisement; observation; deliberation. [Obs.]
AVISION
Vision. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AVOCADO
The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropicalAmerica. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- calledalso avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter.
AVOCAT
An advocate.
AVOCATE
To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to anothertribunal. [Obs. or Archaic]One who avocateth his mind from other occupations. Barrow.He, at last, . . . avocated the cause to Rome. Robertson.
AVOCATION
Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usualemployment; vocation.There are professions, among the men, no more favorable to thesestudies than the common avocations of women. Richardson.In a few hours, above thirty thousand men left his standard, andreturned to their ordinary avocations. Macaulay.An irregularity and instability of purpose, which makes them choosethe wandering avocations of a shepherd, rather than the more fixedpursuits of agriculture. Buckle.
AVOCATIVE
Calling off. [Obs.]
AVOID
To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, theplaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid itby stating new matter. Blackstone.
AVOIDLESS
Unavoidable; inevitable.
AVOKE
To call from or back again. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.
AVOLATE
To fly away; to escape; to exhale. [Obs.]
AVOLATION
The act of flying; flight; evaporation. [Obs.]
AVOSET
Same as Avocet.
AVOUCH
Evidence; declaration. [Obs.]The sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes. Shak.
AVOUCHABLE
Capable of being avouched.
AVOUCHER
One who avouches.
AVOUCHMENT
The act of avouching; positive declaration. [Obs.] Milton.
AVOUTRER
See Advoutrer. [Obs.]
AVOUTRIE
Adultery. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AVOW
To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry.Blackstone.
AVOWABLE
Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, withconfidence. Donne.
AVOWAL
An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal ofsuch principles. Hume.
AVOWANT
The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods,and justifies the taking. Cowell.
AVOWED
Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.-- A*vow"ed*ly (, adv.
AVOWEE
The person who has a right to present to a benefice; thepatron; an advowee. See Advowson.
AVOWER
One who avows or asserts.
AVOWTRY
Adultery. See Advoutry.
AVOYER
A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton ofSwitzerland. [Obs.]
AVULSE
To pluck or pull off. Shenstone.
AVULSION
The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one manto that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a suddenchange in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of oneman is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property inthe part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner.Wharton. Burrill.
AVUNCULAR
Of or pertaining to an uncle.In these rare instances, the law of pedigree, whether direct oravuncular, gives way. I. Taylor.
AWAIT
A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AWAKE
To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep;and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction ordeath.The national spirit again awoke. Freeman.Awake to righteousness, and sin not. 1 Cor. xv. 34.
AWAKEN
To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.[He] is dispatched Already to awaken whom thou nam'st. Cowper.Their consciences are thoroughly awakened. Tillotson.
AWAKENER
One who, or that which, awakens.
AWAKENING
Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousinginto activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakeningdiscourse; the awakening dawn.-- A*wak"en*ing*ly, adv.
AWAKENMENT
An awakening. [R.]
AWANTING
Missing; wanting. [Prov. Scot. & Eng.] Sir W. Hamilton.
AWARD
To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign orapportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; toadjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.To review The wrongful sentence, and award a new. Dryden.
AWARDER
One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicialdetermination; a judge.
AWARN
To warn. [Obs.] Spenser.
AWASH
Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip ofshore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface ofthe water, so that the waves break over it.
AWAY-GOING
Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe untilafter its expiration; -- said of crops. Wharton.
AWAYWARD
Turned away; away. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AWE
To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; tocontrol by inspiring dread.That same eye whose bend doth awe the world. Shak.His solemn and pathetic exhortation awed and melted the bystanders.Macaulay.
AWE-STRICKEN
Awe-struck.
AWE-STRUCK
Struck with awe. Milton.
AWEARIED
Wearied. [Poetic]
AWEARY
Weary. [Poetic] "I begin to be aweary of thee." Shak.
AWEATHER
On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction fromwhich the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather ! Totten.
AWEIGH
Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly;atrip; -- said of the anchor. Totten.
AWELESS
See Awless.
AWESOMENESS
The quality of being awesome.
AWHAPE
To confound; to terrify; to amaze. [Obs.] Spenser.
AWHILE
For a while; for some time; for a short time.
AWING
On the wing; flying; fluttering. Wallace.
AWK
Perversely; in the wrong way. L'Estrange.
AWKWARD SQUAD
A squad of inapt recruits assembled for special drill.
AWL
A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather orwood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade isdifferently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the bradawl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.
AWL-SHAPED
Subulate. See Subulate. Gray.
AWLESSNESS
The quality of being awless.
AWLWORT
A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.
AWM
See Aam.
AWN
The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or anysimilar bristlelike appendage; arista. Gray.
AWNED
Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.Gray.
AWNINGED
Furnished with an awning.
AWNLESS
Without awns or beard.
AWNY
Having awns; bearded.
AWORK
At work; in action. "Set awork." Shak.
AWORKING
At work; in action. [Archaic or Colloq.] Spenser.
AWRONG
Wrongly. Ford.
AWSOME
Same as Awesome.
AX
To ask; to inquire or inquire of.
AXAL
[See Axial.] [R.]
AXIAL
Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; orto the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones. Axialline (Magnetism), the line taken by the magnetic force in passingfrom one pole of a horseshoe magnet to the other. Faraday.
AXIALLY
In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial(magnetic) line.
AXIL
The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of abranch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which itsprings. Gray.
AXILE
Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies inthe axis of a seed. Gray.
AXILLA
The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm andshoulder.
AXILLAR
Axillary.
AXILLARY
Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland,artery, nerve.
AXINITE
A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found inglassy, brown crystals with acute edges.
AXINOMANCY
A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.
AXIOM
A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whosetruth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstrationcan make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take forgranted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;" "A thing can not, atthe same time, be and not be."
AXIOMATICALLY
By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.
AXIS
The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, whereit is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).
AXLE GUARD
The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which anaxle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; --also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England.
AXLED
Having an axle; -- used in composition.Merlin's agate-axled car. T. Warton.
AXMAN
One who wields an ax.
AXMINSTER
An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for itsthick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.
AXOLOTL
An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevatedlakes of Mexico; the siredon.
AXSTONE
A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly thenatives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets.
AXTREE
Axle or axletree. [Obs.] Drayton.
AXUNGE
Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.),lard prepared for medical use.
AY
Ah! alas! "Ay me! I fondly dream `Had ye been there.'" Milton.
AYAH
A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid. [India]
AYE
An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "Tocall for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it."
AYE-AYE
A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found inMadagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its longfingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth.
AYEGREEN
The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum). Halliwell.
AYENWARD
Backward. [Obs.] Chaucer.
AYLE
A grandfather. [Obs.] Writ of Ayle, an ancient English writwhich lay against a stranger who had dispossessed the demandant ofland of which his grandfather died seized.
AYME
The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay,interj. "Aymees and hearty heigh-hoes." J. Fletcher.
AYOND
Beyond. [North of Eng.]
AYONT
Beyond. [Scot.]
AYRSHIRE
One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland.Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk.
AYUNTAMIENTO
In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body ofmagistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen.
AZALEA
A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China orof North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinctfrom Rhododendron.
AZAROLE
The Neapolitan medlar (Cratรฆgus azarolus), a shrub of southernEurope; also, its fruit.
AZEDARACH
A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in thesouthern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride ofChina, and Bead tree.
AZIMUTHAL
Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.Azimuthal error of a transit instrument, its deviation in azimuthfrom the plane of the meridian.
AZO-
A combining form of azote;(a) Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined,as in cyanides, nitrates, etc.(b) Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atomnitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene,azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. SeeDiazo-.
AZOBENZENE
A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, formingorange red crystals which are easily fusible.
AZOGUE
Lit.: Quicksilver; hence: pl. (Mining)
AZOIC
Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animallife; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there wasno animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks. Azoic age (Geol.),the age preceding the existence of animal life, or anterior to thepaleozoic tome. Azoic is also used as a noun, age being understood.See Archรฆan, and Eozoic.
AZOLE
Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five-membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least oneother noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur). The prefixes furo-,thio, and pyrro-are used to distinguish three subclasses of azoles,which may be regarded as derived respectively from furfuran,thiophene, and pyrrol by replacement of the CH group by nitrogen; as,furo-monazole. Names exactly analogous to those for the azines arealso used; as, oxazole, diazole, etc.
AZOLEIC
Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitricacid. [R.]
AZONIC
Confined to no zone or region; not local.
AZORIAN
Of or pertaining to the Azores.-- n.
AZOTE
Same as Nitrogen. [R.]
AZOTED
Nitrogenized; nitrogenous.
AZOTIC
Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting ofazote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid. [R.] Carpenter.
AZOTITE
A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acidwith a base; a nitrite. [R.]
AZOTIZE
To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.
AZOTOMETER
An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion ofnitrogen; a nitrometer.
AZOTOUS
: Nitrous; as, azotous acid. [R.]
AZOTURIA
Excess of urea or other nitrogenous substances in the urine.
AZTEC
Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico thatinhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of theSpanish conquest in 1519.-- n.
AZURE
Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky;cerulean; also, cloudless. Azure stone (Min.), the lapis lazuli;also, the lazulite.
AZURED
Of an azure color; sky-blue. "The azured harebell." Shak.
AZUREOUS
Of a fine blue color; azure.
AZURINE
Azure.
AZURITE
Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.
AZURN
Azure. [Obs.]Thick set with agate, and the azurn sheen Of turkis blue, and emeraldgreen. Milton.
AZYGOUS
Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, theazygous muscle of the uvula.
AZYMIC
Azymous.
AZYMITE
One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- aname of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.
AZYMOUS
Unleavened; unfermented. "Azymous bread." Dunglison.
B
is the second letter of the English alphabet. (See Guide toPronunciation, ยงยง 196,220.) It is etymologically related to p , v , f, w and m , letters representing sounds having a close organicaffinity to its own sound; as in Eng. bursar and purser; Eng. bearand Lat. pear; Eng. silver and Ger. silber; Lat. cubitum and It.gomito; Eng. seven, Anglo-Saxon seofon, Ger. sieben, Lat. septem,Gr.ptan. The form of letter B is Roman, from Greek B (Beta), ofSemitic origin. The small b was formed by gradual change from thecapital B.
BA
To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BAA
To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.He treble baas for help, but none can get. Sir P. Sidney.
BAAING
The bleating of a sheep. Marryat.
BAAL
The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitishnations.
BAALISM
Worship of Baal; idolatry.
BAB
Lit., gate; -- a title given to the founder of Babism, andtaken from that of Bab-ud-Din, assumed by him.
BABA
A kind of plum cake.
BABBITT
To line with Babbitt metal.
BABBITT METAL
A soft white alloy of variable composition (as a nine parts oftin to one of copper, or of fifty parts of tin to five of antimonyand one of copper) used in bearings to diminish friction.
BABBLEMENT
Babble. Hawthorne.
BABBLER
A name given to any one of family (Timalinรฆ) of thrushlikebirds, having a chattering note.
BABBLERY
Babble. [Obs.] Sir T. More
BABEHOOD
Babyhood. [R.] Udall.
BABERY
Finery of a kind to please a child. [Obs.] "Painted babery."Sir P. Sidney.
BABILLARD
The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babblingwarbler.
BABINGTONITE
A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxenein angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron,manganese, and lime.
BABISH
Like a babe; a childish; babyish. [R.] "Babish imbecility."Drayton.-- Bab"ish*ly, adv.-- Bab"ish*ness, n. [R.]
BABISM
The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated inPersia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish andParsee elements.
BABIST
A believer in Babism.
BABLAH
The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia;neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeingdrab.
BABOON
One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus andPapio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and largecanine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities onthe buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, andDrill an ape.
BABOONERY
Baboonish behavior. Marryat.
BABOONISH
Like a baboon.
BABY
An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.
BABY FARM
A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offeredfor hire.
BABY FARMER
One who keeps a baby farm.
BABY FARMING
The business of keeping a baby farm.
BABY JUMPER
A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young childmay be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor.
BABYHOOD
The state or period of infancy.
BABYHOUSE
A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture. Swift.
BABYISH
Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.-- Ba"by*ish*ly, adv.-- Ba"by*ish*ness, n.
BABYLONIAN
Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or tothe ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.
BABYLONISH
See Babyroussa.
BABYSHIP
The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.
BACCALAUREATE
Pertaining to a bachelor of arts. Baccalaureate sermon, in someAmerican colleges, a sermon delivered as a farewell discourse to agraduating class.
BACCATE
Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits. Gray.
BACCHANAL
The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.
BACCHANALIA
A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.
BACCHANALIAN
Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to orgiven to reveling and drunkenness.Even bacchanalian madness has its charms. Cowper.
BACCHANALIANISM
The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.
BACCHANT
Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling;carousing. Byron.
BACCHANTIC
Bacchanalian.
BACCHIUS
A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones;according to some, two long and a short.
BACCHUS
The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.
BACCIFEROUS
Producing berries. " Bacciferous trees." Ray.
BACCIFORM
Having the form of a berry.
BACCIVOROUS
Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.
BACE
See Base. [Obs.] Spenser.
BACHELOR
A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis)of the southern United States.
BACHELORDOM
The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.
BACHELORHOOD
The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.
BACHELORISM
Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging tobachelors. W. Irving.
BACHELORSHIP
The state of being a bachelor.
BACHELRY
The body of young aspirants for knighthood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BACILLAR
Shaped like a rod or staff.
BACILLARIAE
See Diatom.
BACILLARY
Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.
BACILLIFORM
Rod-shaped.
BACILLUS
A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetableorganism.
BACK
The keel and keelson of a ship.
BACK DOOR
A door in the back part of a building; hence, an indirect way.Atterbury.
BACK STAIRS
Stairs in the back part of a house, as distinguished from thefront stairs; hence, a private or indirect way.
BACK-FIRE
To have or experience a back fire or back fires; -- said of aninternal-combustion engine.
BACKARACK
See Bacharach.
BACKARE
Same as Baccare.
BACKBAND
The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up theshafts of a carriage.
BACKBITE
To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly orspitefully (as absent person); to slander or speak evil of (oneabsent). Spenser.
BACKBITER
One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor.
BACKBITING
Secret slander; detraction.Backbiting, and bearing of false witness. Piers Plowman.
BACKBOND
An instrument which, in conjunction with another making anabsolute disposition, constitutes a trust.
BACKBONED
Vertebrate.
BACKCAST
Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure inan effort or enterprise; a reverse. [Scot.]
BACKDOOR
Acting from behind and in concealment; as backdoor intrigues.
BACKDOWN
A receding or giving up; a complete surrender. [Colloq.]
BACKED
Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype orstereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad- backed; hump-backed.
BACKER
One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs aperson or thing in a contest.
BACKFALL
A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.
BACKFRIEND
A secret enemy. [Obs.] South.
BACKGAMMON
A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a "board"marked off into twenty-four spaces called "points". Each player hasfifteen pieces, or "men", the movements of which from point to pointare determined by throwing dice. Formerly called tables. Backgammonboard , a board for playing backgammon, often made in the form of tworectangular trays hinged together, each tray containing two "tables".
BACKGROUND
The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait orgroup of figures.
BACKHAND
A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of theletters is from left to right.
BACKHANDEDNESS
State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirectmethods.
BACKHANDER
A backhanded blow.
BACKHEEL
A method of tripping by getting the leg back of the opponent'sheel on the outside and pulling forward while pushing his body back;a throw made in this way. -- v. t.
BACKHOUSE
A building behind the main building. Specifically: A privy; anecessary.
BACKING
The preparation of the back of a book with glue, etc., beforeputting on the cover.
BACKJOINT
A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slabor other filling.
BACKLASH
The distance through which one part of connected machinery, asa wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connectedparts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also, thejarring or reflex motion caused in badly fitting machinery byirregularities in velocity or a reverse of motion.
BACKLESS
Without a back.
BACKLOG
A large stick of wood, forming the of a fire on the hearth.[U.S.]There was first a backlog, from fifteen to four and twenty inches indiameter and five feet long, imbedded in the ashes. S. G. Goodrich.
BACKS
Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides.
BACKSAW
A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an addedmetallic back.
BACKSET
To plow again, in the fall; -- said of prairie land broken upin the spring. [Western U.S.]
BACKSETTLER
One living in the back or outlying districts of a community.The English backsettlers of Leinster and Munster. Macaulay.
BACKSIDE
The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.
BACKSIGHT
The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged positionwhen the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; asight directed backwards to a station previously occupied. Cf.Foresight, n., 3.
BACKSLIDE
To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually thefaith and practice of a religion that has been professed.
BACKSLIDER
One who backslides.
BACKSLIDING
Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord. Jer. iii. 14.
BACKSTAFF
An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of theheavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; --so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.
BACKSTAY
A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of aship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting themast. [ Often used in the plural.]
BACKSTER
A backer. [Obs.]
BACKSTITCH
A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the laststitch, and bringing it out in front of the end.
BACKSTRESS
A female baker. [Obs.]
BACKWARD
The state behind or past. [Obs.]In the dark backward and abysm of time. Shak.
BACKWARDATION
The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, withthe consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; --also, the premium so paid. See Contango. Biddle.
BACKWARDNESS
The state of being backward.
BACKWASH
To clean the oil from (wood) after combing.
BACKWOODS
The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers.
BACKWOODSMAN
A men living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements,especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of theUnited States. Fisher Ames.
BACKWORM
A disease of hawks. See Filanders. Wright.
BACON
The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, theflesh of a pig salted or fresh. Bacon beetle (Zoรถl.), a beetle(Dermestes lardarius) which, especially in the larval state, feedsupon bacon, woolens, furs, etc. See Dermestes.-- To save one's bacon, to save one's self or property from harm orless. [Colloq.]
BACONIAN
Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy.Baconian method, the inductive method. See Induction.
BACTERIA
See Bacterium.
BACTERIAL
Of or pertaining to bacteria.
BACTERICIDAL
Destructive of bacteria.
BACTERICIDE
Same as Germicide.
BACTERIN
A bacterial vaccine.
BACTERIOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies.
BACTERIOLOGIST
One skilled in bacteriology.
BACTERIOLOGY
The science relating to bacteria.
BACTERIOSCOPIC
Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.
BACTERIOSCOPIST
One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations.
BACTERIOSCOPY
The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detectionand identification, as in the examination of polluted water.
BACTERIUM
A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algรฆ,usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found inputrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll,and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widelydiffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both byfission and by spores. Certain species are active agents infermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certaininfectious diseases. See Bacillus.
BACTRIAN
Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia.-- n.
BACULE
See Bascule.
BACULINE
Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.
BACULITE
A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil inthe Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite.
BACULOMETRY
Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs.
BAD
of Bid. Bade. [Obs.] Dryden.
BAD LANDS
Barren regions, especially in the western United States, wherehorizontal strata (Tertiary deposits) have been often eroded intofantastic forms, and much intersected by canons, and where lack ofwood, water, and forage increases the difficulty of traversing thecountry, whence the name, first given by the Canadian French,Mauvaises Terres (bad lands).
BADAUD
A person given to idle observation of everything, with wonderor astonishment; a credulous or gossipy idler.
BADDER
compar. of Bad, a. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BADDERLOCKS
A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten inEurope; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.
BADDISH
Somewhat bad; inferior. Jeffrey.
BADE
A form of the pat tense of Bid.
BADGE
A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a windowor the representation of one.
BADGELESS
Having no badge. Bp. Hall.
BADGER
An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; ahawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who boughtgrain in one place and sold it in another. [Now dialectic, Eng.]
BADGER GAME
The method of blackmailing by decoying a person into acompromising situation and extorting money by threats of exposure.[Cant]
BADGER STATE
Wisconsin; -- a nickname.
BADGER-LEGGED
Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought tohave. Shak.
BADIAGA
A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north ofEurope, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks ofbruises.
BADIAN
An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illiciumanisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise.
BADIGEON
A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdustand glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood orstone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface.
BADINAGE
Playful raillery; banter. "He . . . indulged himself only in anelegant badinage." Warburton.
BADLY
In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly;unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably;seriously.
BADNESS
The state of being bad.
BAENOMERE
One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax ofArthropods. Packard.
BAENOPOD
One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.
BAENOSOME
The thorax of Arthropods. Packard.
BAETULUS
A meteorite, or similar rude stone artificially shaped, heldsacred or worshiped as of divine origin.
BAFF
A blow; a stroke. [Scot.] H. Miller.
BAFFLE
A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture. [R.] "Abaffle to philosophy." South.
BAFFLEMENT
The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled;frustration; check.
BAFFLER
One who, or that which, baffles.
BAFFLING
Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, bafflingcurrents, winds, tasks.-- Bafflingly, adv.-- Bafflingness, n.
BAFFY
A short wooden club having a deeply concave face, seldom used.
BAFT
Same as Bafta.
BAFTA
A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India.Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export.
BAG
A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary tocarry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag ofcoffee. Bag and baggage, all that belongs to one.-- To give one the bag, to disappoint him. [Obs.] Bunyan.
BAG NET
A bag-shaped net for catching fish.
BAGASSE
Sugar cane, as it
BAGGAGE MASTER
One who has charge of the baggage at a railway station or upona line of public travel. [U.S.]
BAGGAGER
One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower. [Obs.] Sir W.Raleigh.
BAGGALA
A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in IndianOcean.
BAGGILY
In a loose, baggy way.
BAGGING
Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke.[Eng.]
BAGGY
Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag;flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks.
BAGMAN
A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders formanufacturers and tradesmen. Thackeray.
BAGPIPE
A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands ofScotland.
BAGPIPER
One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper. Shak.
BAGREEF
The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef oftopsails. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
BAGUE
The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaftor clustered column into two or more parts.
BAGWIG
A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back ofthe head in a bag.
BAGWORM
One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in thelarval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection.One species (Platoeceticus Gloveri) feeds on the orange tree. SeeBasket worm.
BAH
An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.Twenty-five years ago the vile ejaculation, Bah! was utterly unknownto the English public. De Quincey.
BAHAI
A member of the sect of the Babis consisting of the adherentsof Baha (Mirza Husain Ali, entitled "Baha 'u 'llah," or, "theSplendor of God"), the elder half brother of Mirza Yahya of Nur, whosucceeded the Bab as the head of the Babists. Baha in 1863 declaredhimself the supreme prophet of the sect, and became its recognizedhead. There are upwards of 20,000 Bahais in the United States.
BAHAISM
The religious tenets or practices of the Bahais.
BAHAR
A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varyingconsiderably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625pounds.
BAIGNE
To soak or drench. [Obs.]
BAIGNOIRE
A box of the lowest tier in a theater.  Du Maurier.
BAIL
A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat. [Obs.]The bail of a canoe . . . made of a human skull. Capt. Cook.
BAILEE
The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has atemporary possession and a qualified property in them, for thepurposes of the trust. Blackstone.
BAILER
See Bailor.
BAILIE
An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded tothat of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman.
BAILIFF
A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines,summon juries, etc.
BAILIFFWICK
See Bailiwick. [Obs.]
BAILIWICK
The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; thelimits of a bailiff's authority.
BAILMENT
The action of bailing a person accused.Bailment . . . is the saving or delivery of a man out of prisonbefore he hath satisfied the law. Dalton.
BAILOR
One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.
BAILPIECE
A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance orbail bond.
BAIN
A bath; a bagnio. [Obs.] Holland.
BAIN-MARIE
A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may beheated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming orpreparing food or pharmaceutical preparations.
BAIRAM
The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held atthe close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy daysafter the fast.
BAIRN
A child. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]Has he not well provided for the bairn ! Beau. & Fl.
BAISEMAINS
Respects; compliments. [Obs.]
BAIT
To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment ofone's self or one's beasts, on a journey.Evil news rides post, while good news baits. Milton.My lord's coach conveyed me to Bury, and thence baiting aEvelyn.
BAITER
One who baits; a tormentor.
BAIZE
A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plaincolors.A new black baize waistcoat lined with silk. Pepys.
BAJOCCO
A small cooper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worthabout a cent and a half.
BAKE
The process, or result, of baking.
BAKEHOUSE
A house for baking; a bakery.
BAKEN
p. p. of Bake. [Obs. or. Archaic]
BAKER-LEGGED
Having legs that bend inward at the knees.
BAKINGLY
In a hot or baking manner.
BAKISTRE
A baker. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BALAAM
A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out anewspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's assspeaking. Numb. xxii. 30. [Cant] Balaam basket or box (Print.), thereceptacle for rejected articles. Blackw. Mag.
BALACHONG
A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up withsalt and spices, and then dried. It is much esteemed in China.
BALAENOIDEA
A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and allother whales having the mouth fringed with baleen. See Baleen.
BALANCE
A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (inthe Vocabulary).
BALANCE WHEEL
A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engineor machine; a fly wheel.
BALANCEABLE
Such as can be balanced.
BALANCEMENT
The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; evenadjustment of forces. [R.] Darwin.
BALANCER
In Diptera, the rudimentary posterior wing.
BALANCEREEF
The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.
BALANIFEROUS
Bearing or producing acorns.
BALANITE
A fossil balanoid shell.
BALANOGLOSSUS
A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria.
BALANOID
Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles havingshells shaped like acorns. See Acornshell, and Barnacle.
BALAS RUBY
A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining toorange. See Spinel.
BALATA
A West Indian sapotaceous tree (Bumelia retusa).
BALAUSTINE
The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum). The bark of the root,the rind of the fruit, and the flowers are used medicinally.
BALAYEUSE
A protecting ruffle or frill, as of silk or lace, sewed closeto the lower edge of a skirt on the inside.
BALBUTIES
The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incompletepronunciation.
BALCON
A balcony. [Obs.] Pepys.
BALCONIED
Having balconies.
BALCONY
A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usuallyresting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, abalcony in front of a window. Also, a projecting gallery in places ofamusement; as, the balcony in a theater.
BALD
Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat.
BALD EAGLE
The white-headed eagle (Haliรฆetus leucocephalus) of America.The young, until several years old, lack the white feathers on thehead.
BALD-FACED
Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag.
BALDACHIN
A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported bycolumns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from thewall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St.Peter's.
BALDER
The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace;the son of Odin and Freya. [Written also Baldur.]
BALDERDASH
To mix or adulterate, as liquors.The wine merchants of Nice brew and balderdash, and even mix it withpigeon's dung and quicklime. Smollett.
BALDHEAD
A white-headed variety of pigeon.
BALDHEADED
Having a bald head.
BALDLY
Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.
BALDNESS
The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head;baldness of style.This gives to their syntax a peculiar character of simplicity andbaldness. W. D. Whitney.
BALDPATE
The American widgeon (Anas Americana).
BALDRIB
A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destituteof fat. [Eng.] Southey.
BALDRIC
A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over oneshoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; lessproperly, any belt. [Also spelt bawdrick.]A radiant baldric o'er his shoulder tied Sustained the sword thatglittered at his side. Pope.
BALDWIN
A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple. [U.S.]
BALE
A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded forstorage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw Bale of dice, apair of dice. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
BALEARIC
Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc.,in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia. Balearic crane.(Zoรถl.) See Crane.
BALEEN
Plates or blades of "whalebone," from two to twelve feet long,and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balรฆnoidea) areattached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelikesieve by which the food is retained in the mouth.
BALEFIRE
A signal fire; an alarm fire.Sweet Teviot! on thy silver tide The glaring balefires blaze no more.Sir W. Scott.
BALEFULLY
In a baleful manner; perniciously.
BALEFULNESS
The quality or state of being baleful.
BALISAUR
A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris).
BALISTER
A crossbow. [Obs.] Blount.
BALISTOID
Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidรฆ. SeeFilefish.
BALISTRARIA
A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows mightbe discharged.
BALIZE
A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.
BALK
One of the beams connecting the successive supports of atrestle bridge or bateau bridge.
BALKER
One who, or that which balks.
BALKINGLY
In manner to balk or frustrate.
BALKISH
Uneven; ridgy. [R.] Holinshed.
BALKY
Apt to balk; as, a balky horse.
BALL
A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled withcombustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or toproduce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.
BALL-FLOWER
An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, thepetals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollowmolding.
BALLAD
A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation orsinging; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental orromantic poem in short stanzas.
BALLAD MONGER
A seller or maker of ballads; a poetaster. Shak.
BALLADE
A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English,in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight orten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the wholepoem with an envoy.
BALLADER
A writer of ballads.
BALLADRY
Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads. "Base balladryis so beloved." Drayton.
BALLARAG
To bully; to threaten. [Low] T. Warton.
BALLAST
Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold tosink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.
BALLASTAGE
A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port orharbor.
BALLASTING
That which is used for steadying anything; ballast.
BALLATRY
See Balladry. [Obs.] Milton.
BALLET
A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus,-- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers.
BALLISTA
An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used forhurling large missiles.
BALLISTER
A crossbow. [Obs.]
BALLISTICS
The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of anengine. Whewell.
BALLISTITE
A smokeless powder containing equal parts of solublenitrocellulose and nitroglycerin.
BALLIUM
See Bailey.
BALLOON
A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St.Paul's, in London. [R.]
BALLOON FISH
A fish of the genus Diodon or the genus Tetraodon, having thepower of distending its body by taking air or water into itsdilatable esophagus. See Globefish, and Bur fish.
BALLOONED
Swelled out like a balloon.
BALLOONER
One who goes up in a balloon; an aรซronaut.
BALLOONING
The process of temporarily raising the value of a stock, as byfictitious sales. [U.S.]
BALLOONING SPIDER
A spider which has the habit of rising into the air. Many kinds( esp. species of Lycosa) do this while young by ejecting threads ofsilk until the force of the wind upon them carries the spider aloft.
BALLOONIST
An aรซronaut.
BALLOONRY
The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aรซronautics.
BALLOT
To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate.
BALLOTADE
A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straightline, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only theshoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.
BALLOTAGE
In France, a second ballot taken after an indecisive firstballot to decide between two or several candidates.
BALLOTATION
Voting by ballot. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.
BALLOTER
One who votes by ballot.
BALLOTIN
An officer who has charge of a ballot box. [Obs.] Harrington.
BALLOW
A cudgel. [Obs.] Shak.
BALLPROOF
Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms.
BALLROOM
A room for balls or dancing.
BALM
An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.
BALMIFY
To render balmy. [Obs.] Cheyne.
BALMILY
In a balmy manner. Coleridge.
BALNEAL
Of or pertaining to a bath. Howell.
BALNEARY
A bathing room. Sir T. Browne.
BALNEATION
The act of bathing. [R.]
BALNEATORY
Belonging to a bath. [Obs.]
BALNEOGRAPHY
A description of baths.
BALNEOLOGY
A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.
BALNEOTHERAPY
The treatment of disease by baths.
BALOPTICON
See Projector, below.
BALOTADE
See Ballotade.
BALSA
A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of SouthAmerica.
BALSAM
To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; torender balsamic.
BALSAMATION
Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling,balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.
BALSAMIFEROUS
Producing balsam.
BALSAMINE
The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam.
BALSAMOUS
Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam. "A balsamoussubstance." Sterne.
BALTER
To stick together.[Obs.] Holland.
BALTIC
Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Swedenfrom Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.
BALUSTER
A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an openparapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase,or the eaves of a building.
BALUSTERED
Having balusters.  Dryden.
BALUSTRADE
A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an openparapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase,or the eaves of a building.
BAM
An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. Garrick.To relieve the tediumbams. Prof. Wilson.
BAMBINO
A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infantChrist wrapped in swaddling clothes.
BAMBOCCIADE
A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rusticlife.
BAMBOO
A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing intropical countries.
BAMBOOZLE
To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; tohoax; to mystify; to humbug. [Colloq.] Addison.What oriental tomfoolery is bamboozling you J. H. Newman.
BAMBOOZLER
A swindler; one who deceives by trickery. [Colloq.] Arbuthnot.
BAN
A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's)vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thusassembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, themost effective part of the population liable to military duty and notin the standing army.
BANAL
Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.
BANALITY
Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace,in speech.The highest things were thus brought down to the banalities ofdiscourse. J. Morley.
BANANA
A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musasapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.
BANANA SOLUTION
A solution used as a vehicle in applying bronze pigments. Inaddition to acetote, benzine, and a little pyroxylin, it containsamyl acetate, which gives it the odor of bananas.
BANAT
The territory governed by a ban.
BANCAL
An ornamental covering, as of carpet or leather, for a bench orform.
BANCO
A bank, especially that of Venice.
BAND
Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of aclerical, legal, or academic dress.
BAND FISH
A small red fish of the genus Cepola; the ribbon fish.
BANDAGE
To bind, dress, or cover, with a bandage; as, to bandage theeyes.
BANDALA
A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of theabaca (Musa textilis).
BANDBOX
A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical,for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps,bonnets, etc.
BANDEAU
A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress.Around the edge of this cap was a stiff bandeau of leather. Sir W.Scott.
BANDER
One banded with others. [R.]
BANDERILLA
A barbed dart carrying a banderole which the banderillerothrusts into the neck or shoulder of the bull in a bullfight.
BANDERILLERO
One who thrusts in the banderillas in bullfighting.  W. D.Howells.
BANDING PLANE
A plane used for cutting out grooves and inlaying strings andbands in straight and circular work.
BANDIT
An outlaw; a brigand.No savage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer. Milton.
BANDLE
An Irish measure of two feet in length.
BANDLET
Same as Bandelet.
BANDMASTER
The conductor of a musical band.
BANDOG
A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chainedor tied up.The keeper entered leading his bandog, a large bloodhound, tied in aleam, or band, from which he takes his name. Sir W. Scott.
BANDOLINE
A glutinous pomatum for the fair.
BANDON
Disposal; control; license. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
BANDORE
A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; apandore.
BANDROL
Same as Banderole.
BANDY
A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks.
BANDY-LEGGED
Having crooked legs.
BANE
To be the bane of; to ruin. [Obs.] Fuller.
BANEBERRY
A genus (Actรฆa) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceรฆ, native inthe north temperate zone. The red or white berries are poisonous.
BANEFUL
Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious;noxious; pernicious. "Baneful hemlock." Garth. "Baneful wrath."Chapman.-- Bane"ful*ly, adv. --Bane"ful*ness, n.
BANEWORT
Deadly nightshade.
BANG
To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows;as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on thepiano.
BANGING
Huge; great in size. [Colloq.] Forby.
BANGLE
To waste by little and little; to fritter away. [Obs.]
BANIAN
The Indian fig. See Banyan. Banian days (Naut.), days in whichthe sailors have no flesh meat served out to them. This use seems tobe borrowed from the Banians or Banya race, who eat no flesh.
BANISHER
One who banishes.
BANISHMENT
The act of banishing, or the state of being banished.He secured himself by the banishment of his enemies. Johnson.Round the wide world in banishment we roam. Dryden.
BANISTER
A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like theguitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and isplayed with the fingers and hands.
BANJO
A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like theguitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and isplayed with the fingers and hands.
BANJORINE
A kind of banjo, with a short neck, tuned a fourth higher thanthe common banjo; -- popularly so called.
BANK
A sort of table used by printers.
BANK BOOK
A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bankenters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with thebank.
BANK DISCOUNT
A sum equal to the interest at a given rate on the principal(face) of a bill or note from the time of discounting until itbecomes due.
BANK SWALLOW
See under 1st Bank, n.
BANK-SIDED
Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall-sided.
BANKABLE
Receivable at a bank.
BANKERESS
A female banker. Thackeray.
BANKING
The business of a bank or of a banker. Banking house, anestablishment or office in which, or a firm by whom, banking is done.
BANKRUPT
A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other actstending to defraud his creditors. Blackstone.
BANKSIDE
The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.
BANLIEUE
The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits,of a town or city. Brande & C.
BANNERED
Decorated with a banner or banners "bannered host." Milton.
BANNEROL
A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral processionand set over the tomb. See Banderole.
BANNITION
The act of expulsion.[Obs.] Abp. Laud.
BANNOCK
A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonlymade of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, orgriddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England.Jamieson. Bannock fluke, the turbot. [Scot.]
BANNS
Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or otherplace prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if heknows of just cause why the marriage should not take place.
BANQUET
To treat with a banquet or sumptuous entertainment of food; tofeast.Just in time to banquet The illustrious company assembled there.Coleridge.
BANQUETTE
A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of aparapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.
BANSTICKLE
A small fish, the three-spined stickleback.
BANTAM
A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probablybrought from Bantam, a district of Java.
BANTAM WORK
Carved and painted work in imitation of Japan ware.
BANTENG
The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng).
BANTER
The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-humored raillery; pleasantry.Part banter, part affection. Tennyson.
BANTERER
One who banters or rallies.
BANTINGISM
A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containingmuch farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called fromWilliam Banting of London.
BANTLING
A young or small child; an infant. [Slightly contemptuous ordepreciatory.]In what out of the way corners genius produces her bantlings. W.Irving.
BANTU
A member of one of the great family of Negroid tribes occupyingequatorial and southern Africa. These tribes include, as importantdivisions, the Kafirs, Damaras, Bechuanas, and many tribes whosenames begin with Aba-, Ama-, Ba-, Ma-, Wa-, variants of the Bantuplural personal prefix Aba-, as in Ba-ntu, or Aba-ntu, itself acombination of this prefix with the syllable -ntu, a person. --Ban"tu, a.
BANXRING
An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia.
BANYAN
A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called theIndian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground,which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be thetree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands ofmen.
BANZAI
Lit., May you live ten thousand years; -- used in salutation ofthe emperor and as a battle cry. [Japan]
BAOBAB
A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalizedin India. See Adansonia.
BAPHOMET
An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused ofusing in their mysterious rites.
BAPTISM
The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, asa sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into thevisible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling,or pouring.
BAPTISMAL
Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows. Baptismal name, theChristian name, which is given at baptism.
BAPTISMALLY
In a baptismal manner.
BAPTISTIC
Of or for baptism; baptismal.
BAPTISTICAL
Baptistic. [R.]
BAPTIZABLE
Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized. Baxter.
BAPTIZATION
Baptism. [Obs.]Their baptizations were null. Jer. Taylor.
BAPTIZEMENT
The act of baptizing.[R.]
BAPTIZER
One who baptizes.
BAR
An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifthpart of the field.
BAR IRON
See under Iron.
BARACA
An international, interdenominational organization of Bibleclasses of young men; -- so named in allusion to the Hebrew wordBerachah (Meaning blessing) occurring in 2 Chron. xx. 26 and 1 Chron.xii.
BARAD
The pressure of one dyne per square centimeter; -- used as aunit of pressure.
BARATHEA
A soft fabric with a kind of basket weave and a diaperedpattern.
BARB
Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which markthe opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses andcattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed andswollen. [Written also barbel and barble.]
BARBACAN
See Barbican.
BARBACANAGE
See Barbicanage.
BARBADIAN
Of or pertaining to Barbados.-- n.
BARBARA
The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent thevarious forms of the syllogism. It indicates a syllogism whose threepropositions are universal affirmatives. Whately.
BARBARESQUE
Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture. DeQuincey.
BARBARIAN
Of, or pertaining to, or resembling, barbarians; rude;uncivilized; barbarous; as, barbarian governments or nations.
BARBARITY
The state or manner of a barbarian; lack of civilization.
BARBARIZE
To make barbarous.The hideous changes which have barbarized France. Burke.
BARBAROUSLY
In a barbarous manner.
BARBAROUSNESS
The quality or state of being barbarous; barbarity; barbarism.
BARBARY
The countries on the north coast of Africa from Egypt to theAtlantic. Hence: A Barbary horse; a barb. [Obs.] Also, a kind ofpigeon. Barbary ape (Zoรถl.), an ape (Macacus innus) of north Africaand Gibraltar Rock, being the only monkey inhabiting Europe. It isvery commonly trained by showmen.
BARBASTEL
A European bat (Barbastellus communis), with hairy lips.
BARBATE
Bearded; beset with long and weak hairs.
BARBATED
Having barbed points.A dart uncommonly barbated. T. Warton.
BARBED
Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded( which is the proper form.) Sir W. Raleigh.
BARBEL
A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.
BARBELLATE
Having short, stiff hairs, often barbed at the point. Gray.
BARBELLULATE
Barbellate with diminutive hairs or barbs.
BARBER
One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and tocut and dress the hair of his patrons. Barber's itch. See under Itch.
BARBER FISH
See Surgeon fish.
BARBERMONGER
A fop. [Obs.]
BARBERRY
A shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and inneglected fields. B. vulgaris is the species best known; its oblongred berries are made into a preserve or sauce, and have been deemedefficacious in fluxes and fevers. The bark dyes a fine yellow, esp.the bark of the root. [Also spelt berberry.]
BARBETTE
A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on whichguns are mounted to fire over the parapet. En barbette, In barbette,said of guns when they are elevated so as to fire over the top of aparapet, and not through embrasures.-- Barbette gun, or Barbette battery, a single gun, or a number ofguns, mounted in barbette, or partially protected by a parapet orturret.-- Barbette carriage, a gun carriage which elevates gunssufficiently to be in barbette. [See Illust. of Casemate.]
BARBICEL
One of the small hooklike processes on the barbules offeathers.
BARBIERS
A variety of paralysis, peculiar to India and the Malabarcoast; -- considered by many to be the same as beriberi in chronicform.
BARBIGEROUS
Having a beard; bearded; hairy.
BARBITON
An ancient Greek instrument resembling a lyre.
BARBITURIC ACID
A white, crystalline substance,
BARBLE
See Barbel.
BARBOTINE
A paste of clay used in decorating coarse pottery in relief.
BARBRE
Barbarian. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BARBULE
One of the processes along the edges of the barbs of a feather,by which adjacent barbs interlock. See Feather.
BARCON
A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.
BARD
Defensive armor formerly worn by a man at arms.
BARDED
Wearing rich caparisons.Fifteen hundred men . . . barded and richly trapped. Stow.
BARDIC
Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry. "The bardic lays ofancient Greece." G. P. Marsh.
BARDIGLIO
An Italian marble of which the principal varieties occur in theneighborhood of Carrara and in Corsica. It commonly shows a dark grayor bluish ground traversed by veins.
BARDISH
Pertaining to, or written by, a bard or bards. "Bardishimpostures." Selden.
BARDISM
The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards.
BARDLING
An inferior bard. J. Cunningham.
BARDSHIP
The state of being a bard.
BARE
That part of a roofing slate, shingle, tile, or metal plate,which is exposed to the weather.
BAREBACK
On the bare back of a horse, without using a saddle; as, toride bareback.
BAREBACKED
Having the back uncovered; as, a barebacked horse.
BAREBONE
A very lean person; one whose bones show through the skin.Shak.
BAREFACEDLY
Openly; shamelessly. Locke.
BAREFACEDNESS
The quality of being barefaced; shamelessness; assurance;audaciousness.
BAREFOOT
With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings.
BAREFOOTED
Having the feet bare.
BAREGE
A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted,silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted.
BAREHANDED
Having bare hands.
BARELEGGED
Having the legs bare.
BARENECKED
Having the neck bare.
BARENESS
The state of being bare.
BARESARK
A Berserker, or Norse warrior who fought without armor, orshirt of mail. Hence, adverbially: Without shirt of mail or armor.
BARFISH
Same as Calico bass.
BARFUL
Full of obstructions. [Obs.] Shak.
BARGAIN
To make a bargain; to make a contract for the exchange ofproperty or services; -- followed by with and for; as, to bargainwith a farmer for a cow.So worthless peasants bargain for their wives. Shak.
BARGAINEE
The party to a contract who receives, or agrees to receive, theproperty sold. Blackstone.
BARGAINER
One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense ofbargainor.
BARGAINOR
One who makes a bargain, or contracts with another; esp., onewho sells, or contracts to sell, property to another. Blackstone.
BARGEBOARD
A vergeboard.
BARGECOURSE
A part of the tiling which projects beyond the principalrafters, in buildings where there is a gable. Gwilt.
BARGEE
A bargeman. [Eng.]
BARGEMAN
The man who manages a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.
BARGEMASTTER
The proprietor or manager of a barge, or one of the crew of abarge.
BARGER
The manager of a barge. [Obs.]
BARGHEST
A goblin, in the shape of a large dog, portending misfortune.[Also written barguest.]
BARIA
Baryta.
BARIC
Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide.
BARILLA
A name given to several species of Salsola from which soda ismade, by burning the barilla in heaps and lixiviating the ashes.
BARILLET
A little cask, or something resembling one. Smart.
BARITE
Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent,colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also ingranular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble. It hasa high specific gravity, and hence is often called heavy spar. It isa common mineral in metallic veins.
BARITONE
See Barytone.
BARIUM
One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; ametal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very hightemperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from thefacility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight,137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta. [Rarely written barytum.]
BARK
The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similarsound made by some other animals.
BARK BEETLE
A small beetle of many species (family Scolytidรฆ), which in thelarval state bores under or in the bark of trees, often doing greatdamage.
BARK LOUSE
An insect of the family Coccidรฆ, which infests the bark oftrees and vines.
BARKANTINE
Same as Barkentine.
BARKBOUND
Prevented from growing, by having the bark too firm or close.
BARKEEPER
One who keeps or tends a bar for the sale of liquors.
BARKEN
Made of bark. [Poetic] Whittier.
BARKENTINE
A threemasted vessel, having the foremast square-rigged, andthe others schooner-rigged. [Spelled also barquentine, barkantine,etc.] See Illust. in Append.
BARKER
The spotted redshank.
BARKERY
A tanhouse.
BARKLESS
Destitute of bark.
BARKY
Covered with, or containing, bark. "The barky fingers of theelm." Shak.
BARLEY
A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, usedfor food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, andwhisky. Barley bird (Zoรถl.), the siskin.-- Barley sugar, sugar boiled till it is brittle (formerly with adecoction of barley) and candied.-- Barley water, a decoction of barley, used in medicine, as anutritive and demulcent.
BARLEY-BREE
Liquor made from barley; strong ale. [Humorous] [Scot.] Burns.
BARM
Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting,and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast. Shak.
BARMAID
A girl or woman who attends the customers of a bar, as in atavern or beershop.A bouncing barmaid. W. Irving.
BARMASTER
Formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of thebarmote. [Eng.]
BARMCLOTH
Apron. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BARMECIDAL
Unreal; illusory. "A sort of Barmecidal feast." Hood.
BARMECIDE
One who proffers some illusory advantage or benefit. Also usedas an adj.: Barmecidal. "A Barmecide feast." Dickens.
BARMOTE
A court held in Derbyshire, in England, for decidingcontroversies between miners. Blount.
BARMY
Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer." Dryden.
BARN
A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, andother productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barnis often used for stables. Barn owl (Zoรถl.), an owl of Europe andAmerica (Aluco flammeus, or Strix flammea), which frequents barns andother buildings.-- Barn swallow (Zoรถl.), the common American swallow (Hirundohorreorum), which attaches its nest of mud to the beams and raftersof barns.
BARNABITE
A member of a religious order, named from St. Barnabas.
BARNACLE
Any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber,ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies),and (b) the stalked or goose barnacles (genus Lepas and allies). SeeCirripedia, and Goose barnacle. Barnacle eater (Zoรถl.), the orangefilefish.-- Barnacle scale (Zoรถl.), a bark louse (Ceroplastescirripediformis) of the orange and quince trees in Florida. Thefemale scale curiously resembles a sessile barnacle in form.
BARNBURNER
A member of the radical section of the Democratic party in NewYork, about the middle of the 19th century, which was hostile toextension of slavery, public debts, corporate privileges, etc., andsupported Van Buren against Cass for president in 1848; --opposed toHunker. [Political Cant, U. S.]
BARNSTORMER
An itinerant theatrical player who plays in barns when atheatre is lacking; hence, an inferior actor, or one who plays in thecountry away from the larger cities. --Barn"storm`ing, n. [TheatricalCant]
BARNYARD
A yard belonging to a barn.
BAROCCO
See Baroque.
BAROCYCLONOMETER
An aneroid barometer for use with accompanying graphic diagramsand printed directions designed to aid mariners to interpret theindications of the barometer so as to determine the existence of aviolent storm at a distance of several hundred miles.
BAROGRAM
A tracing, usually made by the barograph, showing graphicallythe variations of atmospheric pressure for a given time.
BAROGRAPH
An instrument for recording automatically the variations ofatmospheric pressure.
BAROKO
A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is auniversal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative.
BAROLOGY
The science of weight or gravity.
BAROMACROMETER
An instrument for ascertaining the weight and length of anewborn infant.
BAROMETER
An instrument for determining the weight or pressure of theatmosphere, and hence for judging of the probable changes of weather,or for ascertaining the height of any ascent.
BAROMETRICALLY
By means of a barometer, or according to barometricobservations.
BAROMETROGRAPH
A form of barometer so constructed as to inscribe of itselfupon paper a record of the variations of atmospheric pressure.
BAROMETRY
The art or process of making barometrical measurements.
BAROMETZ
The woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksoniabarometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhatresembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb.
BARON
A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife. [R.] Cowell.Baron of beef, two sirloins not cut asunder at the backbone.-- Barons of the Cinque Ports, formerly members of the House ofCommons, elected by the seven Cinque Ports, two for each port.-- Baron of the exchequer, the judges of the Court of Exchequer, oneof the three ancient courts of England, now abolished.
BARONESS
A baron's wife; also, a lady who holds the baronial title inher own right; as, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.
BARONET
A dignity or degree of honor next below a baron and above aknight, having precedency of all orders of knights except those ofthe Garter. It is the lowest degree of honor that is hereditary. Thebaronets are commoners.
BARONETCY
The rank or patent of a baronet.
BARONG
A kind of cutting weapon with a thick back and thin razorlikeedge, used by the Moros of the Philippine Islands.
BARONIAL
Pertaining to a baron or a barony. "Baronial tenure." Hallam.
BAROQUE
In bad taste; grotesque; odd.
BAROSCOPE
Any instrument showing the changes in the weight of theatmosphere; also, less appropriately, any instrument that indicates -or foreshadows changes of the weather, as a deep vial of liquidholding in suspension some substance which rises and falls withatmospheric changes.
BAROTHERMOGRAPH
An instrument for recording both pressure and temperature, asof the atmosphere.
BAROUCHE
A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on theoutside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arrangedso that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat.
BAROUCHET
A kind of light barouche.
BARPOST
A post sunk in the ground to receive the bars closing a passageinto a field.
BARQUE
Same as 3d Bark, n.
BARRACAN
A thick, strong stuff, somewhat like camlet; -- still used forouter garments in the Levant.
BARRACK
A building for soldiers, especially when in garrison. Commonlyin the pl., originally meaning temporary huts, but now usuallyapplied to a permanent structure or set of buildings.He lodged in a miserable hut or barrack, composed of dry branches andthatched with straw. Gibbon.
BARRACLADE
A home-made woolen blanket without nap. [Local, New York]Bartlett.
BARRACOON
A slave warehouse, or an inclosure where slaves are quarteredtemporarily. Du Chaillu.
BARRAGE
An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or watercourse to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile.
BARRANCA
A ravine caused by heavy rains or a watercourse. [Texas & N.Mex.]
BARRAS
A resin, called also galipot.
BARRATOR
One guilty of barratry.
BARRATROUS
Tainter with, or constituting, barratry.-- Bar"ra*trous*ly, adv. Kent.
BARRATRY
The practice of exciting and encouraging lawsuits and quarrels.[Also spelt barretry.] Coke. Blackstone.
BARRED OWL
A large American owl (Syrnium nebulosum); -- so called from thetransverse bars of a dark brown color on the breast.
BARREL
The hollow basal part of a feather. Barrel bulk (Com.), ameasure equal to five cubic feet, used in estimating capacity, as ofa vessel for freight.-- Barrel drain (Arch.), a drain in the form of a cylindrical tube.-- Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part of a boiler, containingthe flues.-- Barrel of the ear (Anat.), the tympanum, or tympanic cavity.-- Barrel organ, an instrument for producing music by the action ofa revolving cylinder.-- Barrel vault. See under Vault.
BARREL PROCESS
A process of extracting gold or silver by treating the ore in arevolving barrel, or drum, with mercury, chlorine, cyanide solution,or other reagent.
BARREN
Elevated lands or plains on which grow small trees, but nottimber; as, pine barrens; oak barrens. They are not necessarilysterile, and are often fertile. [Amer.] J. Pickering.
BARRENLY
Unfruitfully; unproductively.
BARRENNESS
The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness.A total barrenness of invention. Dryden.
BARRENWORT
An herbaceous plant of the Barberry family (Epimedium alpinum),having leaves that are bitter and said to be sudorific.
BARRET
A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barretcap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics.
BARRETTER
A thermal cymoscope which operates by increased resistance whensubjected to the influence of electric waves. The original formconsisted of an extremely fine platinum wire loop attached toterminals and inclosed in a small glass or silver bulb. In a latervariety, called the liquid barretter, wire is replace by a column ofliquid in a very fine capillary tube.
BARRICADE
A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades,wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of anenemy. It is usually an obstruction formed in streets to block anenemy's access.
BARRICADER
One who constructs barricades.
BARRICADO
See Barricade. Shak.
BARRIER
A carpentry obstruction, stockade, or other obstacle made in apassage in order to stop an enemy.
BARRIGUDO
A large, dark-colored, South American monkey, of the genusLagothrix, having a long prehensile tail.
BARRINGOUT
The act of closing the doors of a schoolroom against aschoolmaster; -- a boyish mode of rebellion in schools. Swift.
BARRIO
In Spain and countries colonized by Spain, a village, ward, ordistrict outside a town or city to whose jurisdiction it belongs.
BARRISTER
Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, andundertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from anattorney or solicitor. See Attorney. [Eng.]
BARROOM
A room containing a bar or counter at which liquors are sold.
BARROW
A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain.
BARROWIST
A follower of Henry Barrowe, one of the founders ofIndependency or Congregationalism in England. Barrowe was executedfor nonconformity in 1953.
BARRULET
A diminutive of the bar, having one fourth its width.
BARRULY
Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field.
BARRY
, Divided into bars; -- said of the field.
BARSE
The common perch. See 1st Bass. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
BARTENDER
A barkeeper.
BARTER
To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another,in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid forthe commodities transferred; to truck.
BARTERER
One who barters.
BARTERY
Barter. [Obs.] Camden.
BARTH
A place of shelter for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
BARTHOLOMEW TIDE
Time of the festival of St. Bartholomew, August 24th. Shak.
BARTIZAN
A small, overhanging structure for lookout or defense, usuallyprojecting at an angle of a building or near an entrance gateway.
BARTLETT
A Bartlett pear, a favorite kind of pear, which originated inEngland about 1770, and was called Williams' Bonchrรฉtien. It wasbrought to America, and distributed by Mr. Enoch Bartlett, ofDorchester, Massachusetts.
BARTRAM
See Bertram. Johnson.
BARWAY
A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take outof the posts.
BARWISE
Horizontally.
BARWOOD
A red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angolaand the Gaboon in Africa. It is used as a dyewood, and also forramrods, violin bows and turner's work.
BARYCENTRIC
Of or pertaining to the center of gravity. See Barycentriccalculus, under Calculus.
BARYPHONY
Difficulty of speech.
BARYSPHERE
The heavy interior portion of the earth, within thelithosphere.
BARYTA
An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specificgravity above 4.
BARYTES
Barium sulphate, generally called heavy spar or barite. SeeBarite.
BARYTIC
Of or pertaining to baryta.
BARYTO-CALCITE
A mineral of a white or gray color, occurring massive orcrystallized. It is a compound of the carbonates of barium andcalcium.
BARYTUM
The metal barium. See Barium. [R.]
BAS-RELIEF
Low relief; sculpture, the figures of which project less thanhalf of their true proportions; -- called also bassrelief and basso-rilievo. See Alto-rilievo.
BASAL
Relating to, or forming, the base. Basal cleavage. See underCleavage.-- Basal plane (Crystallog.), one parallel to the lateral orhorizontal axis.
BASAL-NERVED
Having the nerves radiating from the base; -- said of leaves.
BASALT
A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinicfeldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle-green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.
BASALTIC
Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; asbasaltic lava.
BASALTIFORM
In the form of basalt; columnar.
BASALTOID
Formed like basalt; basaltiform.
BASAN
Same as Basil, a sheepskin.
BASANITE
Lydian stone, or black jasper, a variety of siliceous or flintyslate, of a grayish or bluish black color. It is employed to test thepurity of gold, the amount of alloy being indicated by the color lefton the stone when rubbed by the metal.
BASBLEU
A bluestocking; a literary woman. [Somewhat derisive]
BASCINET
A light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor.[Written also basinet, bassinet, basnet.]
BASCULE
In mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, inwhich one end rises as the other falls. Bascule bridge, acounterpoise or balanced drawbridge, which is opened by sinking thecounterpoise and thus lifting the footway into the air.
BASE
Not held by honorable service; as, a base estate, one held byservices not honorable; held by villenage. Such a tenure is calledbase, or low, and the tenant, a base tenant. Base fee, formerly, anestate held at the will of the lord; now, a qualified fee. See noteunder Fee, n., 4.-- Base metal. See under Metal.
BASE VIOL
See Bass viol.
BASE-BURNER
A furnace or stove in which the fuel is contained in a hopperor chamber, and is fed to the fire as the lower stratum is consumed.
BASE-COURT
An inferior court of law, not of record.
BASEBOARD
A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a roomand touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; --also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard.
BASED
Wearing, or protected by, bases. [Obs.] "Based in lawnyvelvet." E. Hall.
BASELARD
A short sword or dagger, worn in the fifteenth century.[Written also baslard.] Fairholt.
BASELESS
Without a base; having no foundation or support. "The baselessfabric of this vision." Shak.
BASEMENT
The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a partof that story, when treated as a distinct substructure. ( See Base,n., 3 (a).) Hence: The rooms of a ground floor, collectively.Basement membrane (Anat.), a delicate membrane composed of a singlelayer of flat cells, forming the substratum upon which, in manyorgans, the epithelioid cells are disposed.
BASENESS
The quality or condition of being base; degradation; vileness.I once did hold it a baseness to write fair. Shak.
BASENET
See Bascinet. [Obs.]
BASH
To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out ofcountenance. [Obs.]His countenance was bold and bashed not. Spenser.
BASHAW
A very large siluroid fish (Leptops olivaris) of theMississippi valley; -- also called goujon, mud cat, and yellow cat.
BASHFULLY
In a bashful manner.
BASHFULNESS
The quality of being bashful.
BASHI-BAZOUK
A soldier belonging to the irregular troops of the Turkisharmy.
BASHLESS
Shameless; unblushing. [Obs.] Spenser.
BASHYLE
See Basyle.
BASI-
A combining form, especially in anatomical and botanical words,to indicate the base or position at or near a base; forming a base;as, basibranchials, the most ventral of the cartilages or bones ofthe branchial arches; basicranial, situated at the base of thecranium; basifacial, basitemporal, etc.
BASIC
Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively lowpercentage of silica, as basalt. Basic salt (Chem.), a salt formedfrom a base or hydroxide by the partial replacement of its hydrogenby a negative or acid element or radical.
BASIC PROCESS
A Bessemer or open-hearth steel-making process in which alining that is basic, or not siliceous, is used, and additions ofbasic material are made to the molten charge during treatment.Opposed to acid process, above. Called also Thomas process.
BASIC SLAG
A by-product from the manufacture of steel by the basicprocess, used as a fertilizer. It is rich in lime and contains 14 to20 per cent of phosphoric acid. Called also Thomas slag, phosphaticslag, and odorless phosphate.
BASIC STEEL
Steel produced by the basic process.
BASICERITE
The second joint of the antennรฆ of crustaceans.
BASIDIOMYCETES
A large subdivision of fungi coรถrdinate with the Ascomycetes,characterized by having the spores borne on a basidium. It embracesthose fungi best known to the public, such as mushrooms, toadstools,etc.
BASIDIOSPORE
A spore borne by a basidium.-- Ba*sid`i*o*spor"ous (, a.
BASIDIUM
A special oblong or pyriform cell, with slender branches, whichbears the spores in that division of fungi called Basidiomycetes, ofwhich the common mushroom is an example.
BASIFIER
That which converts into a salifiable base.
BASIFUGAL
Tending or proceeding away from the base; as, a basifugalgrowth.
BASIFY
To convert into a salifiable base.
BASIGYNIUM
The pedicel on which the ovary of certain flowers, as thepassion flower, is seated; a carpophore or thecaphore.
BASIHYAL
Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoidarch.
BASIHYOID
The central tongue bone.
BASIL
The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as aplane, is ground. Grier.
BASILIC
Basilica.
BASILICA
Originally, the place of a king; but afterward, an apartmentprovided in the houses of persons of importance, where assemblieswere held for dispensing justice; and hence, any large hall used forthis purpose.
BASILICAN
Of, relating to, or resembling, a basilica; basilical.There can be no doubt that the first churches in Constantinople werein the basilican form. Milman.
BASILICOK
The basilisk. [Obs.] Chaucer
BASILICON
An ointment composed of wax, pitch, resin, and olive oil, lard,or other fatty substance.
BASILISK
A lizard of the genus Basiliscus, belonging to the familyIguanidรฆ.
BASIN
An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where thestrata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especiallyapplied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields.
BASINED
Inclosed in a basin. "Basined rivers." Young.
BASINET
Same as Bascinet.
BASIOCCIPITAL
Of or pertaining to the bone in the base of the cranium,frequently forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but usuallydistinct in the young.-- n.
BASION
The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of theskull.
BASIPODITE
The basal joint of the legs of Crustacea.
BASIPTERYGIUM
A bar of cartilage at the base of the embryonic fins of somefishes. It develops into the metapterygium.-- Ba*sip`ter*yg"i*al (, a.
BASIPTERYGOID
Applied to a protuberance of the base of the sphenoid bone.
BASISOLUTE
Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves.
BASISPHENOID
The basisphenoid bone.
BASK
To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.Basks in the glare, and stems the tepid wave. Goldsmith.
BASKET
The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. [Improperly soused.] Gwilt.
BASKET BALL
A game, usually played indoors, in which two parties of playerscontest with each other to toss a large inflated ball into oppositegoals resembling baskets.
BASKETFUL
As much as a basket will contain.
BASKETRY
The art of making baskets; also, baskets, taken collectively.
BASKING SHARK
One of the largest species of sharks (Cetorhinus maximus), socalled from its habit of basking in the sun; the liver shark, or boneshark. It inhabits the northern seas of Europe and America, and growsto a length of more than forty feet. It is a harmless species.
BASNET
Same as Bascinet.
BASOMMATOPHORA
A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of thetentacles, including the common pond snails.
BASON
A basin. [Obs. or Special form]
BASQUE
Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language.
BASQUISH
Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay;Basque [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
BASS
; pl. Bass, and sometimes Basses. Etym: [A corruption ofbarse.] (Zoรถl.)
BASS DRUM
The largest of the different kinds of drums, having two heads,and emitting a deep, grave sound. See Bass, a.
BASS HORN
A modification of the bassoon, much deeper in tone.
BASS VIOL
A stringed instrument of the viol family, used for playingbass. See 3d Bass, n., and Violoncello.
BASS-RELIEF
Some as Bas-relief.
BASSET
A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have beeninvented at Venice.Some dress, some dance, some play, not to forget Your piquet parties,and your dear basset. Rowe.
BASSET HORN
An instrument blown with a reed, and resembling a clarinet, butof much greater compass, embracing nearly four octaves.
BASSET HOUND
A small kind of hound with a long body and short legs, used asan earth dog.
BASSETING
The upward direction of a vein in a mine; the emergence of astratum at the surface.
BASSETTO
A tenor or small bass viol.
BASSOCK
A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.
BASSOON
A wind instrument of the double reed kind, furnished withholes, which are stopped by the fingers, and by keys, as in flutes.It forms the natural bass to the oboe, clarinet, etc.
BASSOONIST
A performer on the bassoon. Busby.
BASSORIN
A constituent part of a species of gum from Bassora, as also ofgum tragacanth and some gum resins. It is one of the amyloses. Ure.
BASSWOOD
The bass (Tilia) or its wood; especially, T. Americana. SeeBass, the lime tree.All the bowls were made of basswood, White and polished verysmoothly. Longfellow.
BASTA
Enough; stop. Shak.
BASTARD
Abbreviated, as the half title in a page preceding the fulltitle page of a book. Bastard ashlar (Arch.), stones for ashlar work,roughly squared at the quarry.-- Bastard file, a file intermediate between the coarsest and thesecond cut.-- Bastard type (Print.), type having the face of a larger or asmaller size than the body; e.g., a nonpareil face on a brevier body.-- Bastard wing (Zoรถl.), three to five quill feathers on a smalljoint corresponding to the thumb in some mam malia; the alula.
BASTARDISM
The state of being a bastard; bastardy.
BASTARDLY
Bastardlike; baseborn; spuripous; corrupt. [Obs.] -- adv.
BASTE
To sprinkle flour and salt and drip butter or fat on, as onmeat in roasting.
BASTINADE
See Bastinado, n.
BASTINADO
To beat with a stick or cudgel, especially on the soles of thefeet.
BASTION
A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of afortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and soconstructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacentcurtain, or wall which extends from one bastion to another. Twoadjacent bastions are connected by the curtain, which joins the flankof one with the adjacent flank of the other. The distance between theflanks of a bastion is called the gorge. A lunette is a detachedbastion. See Ravelin.
BASTIONED
Furnished with a bastion; having bastions.
BASTO
The ace of clubs in qua Pope.
BASTON
See Baton.
BASUTOS
A warlike South African people of the Bantu stock, divided intomany tribes, subject to the English. They formerly practicedcannibalism, but have now adopted many European customs.
BASYLE
A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, eitherelementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element.
BASYLOUS
Pertaining to, or having the nature of, a basyle; electro-positive; basic; -- opposed to chlorous. Graham.
BAT
Shale or bituminous shale. Kirwan.
BAT PRINTING
A mode of printing on glazed ware.
BATABLE
Disputable. [Obs.]
BATAILLED
Embattled. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BATARDEAU
A wall built across the ditch of a fortification, with a sluicegate to regulate the height of water in the ditch on both sides ofthe wall.
BATAVIAN
Of or pertaining to (a) the Batavi, an ancient Germanic tribe;or to (b) as, a Batavian legion. Batavian Republic, the name given toHolland by the French after its conquest in 1795.
BATE
Strife; contention. [Obs.] Shak.
BATEAU
A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadianlakes and rivers. [Written also, but less properly, batteau.] Bateaubridge, a floating bridge supported by bateaux.
BATED
Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath.Macaulay.
BATEFUL
Exciting contention; contentious. [Obs.] "It did batefulquestion frame. " Sidney.
BATELESS
Not to be abated. [Obs.] Shak.
BATEMENT
Abatement; diminution. Moxon. Batement light (Arch.), a windowor one division of a window having vertical sides, but with the sillnot horizontal, as where it follows the rake of a staircase.
BATFISH
A name given to several species of fishes: (a) The Malthevespertilio of the Atlantic coast. (b) The flying gurnard of theAtlantic (Cephalacanthus spinarella). (c) The California batfish orsting ray (Myliobatis Californicus.)
BATFOWLER
One who practices or finds sport in batfowling.
BATFOWLING
A mode of catching birds at night, by holding a torch or otherlight, and beating the bush or perch where they roost. The birds,flying to the light, are caught with nets or otherwise.
BATFUL
Rich; fertile. [Obs.] "Batful valleys." Drayton.
BATH
A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, hot air, through whichheat is applied to a body.
BATHE
The immersion of the body in water; as to take one's usualbathe. Edin. Rev.
BATHER
One who bathes.
BATHETIC
Having the character of bathos. [R.]
BATHING
Act of taking a bath or baths. Bathing machine, a small room onwheels, to be driven into the water, for the convenience of bathers,who undress and dress therein.
BATHMISM
See Vital force.
BATHOMETER
An instrument for measuring depths, esp. one for takingsoundings without a sounding line.
BATHORSE
A horse which carries an officer's baggage during a campaign.
BATHOS
A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing orspeech; anticlimax.
BATHYBIUS
A name given by Prof. Huxley to a gelatinous substance found inmud dredged from the Atlantic and preserved in alcohol. He supposedthat it was free living protoplasm, covering a large part of theocean bed. It is now known that the substance is of chemical, not oforganic, origin.
BATHYGRAPHIC
Descriptive of the ocean depth; as, a bathygraphic chart.
BATHYMETRY
The art or science of sounding, or measuring depths in the sea.
BATING
With the exception of; excepting.We have little reason to think that they bring many ideas with them,bating some faint ideas of hunger and thirst. Locke.
BATISTE
Originally, cambric or lawn of fine linen; now applied also tocloth of similar texture made of cotton.
BATLET
A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called alsobatler, batling staff, batting staff. Shak.
BATMAN
A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality;in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only afourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds.Simmonds.
BATOIDEI
The division of fishes which includes the rays and skates.
BATON
An ordinary with its ends cut off, borne sinister as a mark ofbastardy, and containing one fourth in breadth of the bend sinister;-- called also bastard bar. See Bend sinister.
BATOON
See Baton, and Baston.
BATRACHIA
The order of amphibians which includes the frogs and toads; theAnura. Sometimes the word is used in a wider sense as equivalent toAmphibia.
BATRACHIAN
Pertaining to the Batrachia.-- n.
BATRACHOID
Froglike. Specifically: Of or pertaining to the Batrachidรฆ, afamily of marine fishes, including the toadfish. Some have poisonousdorsal spines.
BATRACHOMYOMACHY
The battle between the frogs and mice; -- a Greek parody on theIliad, of uncertain authorship.
BATRACHOPHAGOUS
Feeding on frogs. Quart. Rev.
BATSMAN
The one who wields the bat in cricket, baseball, etc.
BATTA
Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officerserving in India. Whitworth.
BATTABLE
Capable of culti [Obs.] Burton.
BATTAILANT
Prepared for battle; combatant; warlike. Spenser.-- n.
BATTAILOUS
Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike. [Obs.]"In battailous aspect." Milton.
BATTALION
A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. whenassembled for drill or battle.
BATTEL
A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel,under Wager.
BATTEN
To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one'sself. Dryden.The pampered monarch lay battening in ease. Garth.Skeptics, with a taste for carrion, who batten on the hideous factsin history, -- persecutions, inquisitions. Emerson.
BATTENING
Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall.
BATTER
To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardlyand spread it outwardly.
BATTERER
One who, or that which, batters.
BATTERING TRAIN
A train of artillery for siege operations.
BATTERING-RAM
1. (Mil.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down thewalls of besieged places.
BATTERY
The unlawful beating of another. It includes every willful,angry and violent, or negligent touching of another's person orclothes, or anything attached to his person or held by him.
BATTLE
Fertile. See Battel, a. [Obs.]
BATTLE RANGE
The range within which the fire of small arms is verydestructive. With the magazine rifle, this is six hundred yards.
BATTLE SHIP
An armor-plated man-of-war built of steel and heavily armed,generally having from ten thousand to fifteen thousand tonsdisplacement, and intended to be fit to meet the heaviest ships inline of battle.
BATTLED
Embattled. [Poetic] Tennyson.
BATTLEDOOR
A child's hornbook. [Obs.] Halliwell.
BATTLEMENTED
Having battlements.A battlemented portal. Sir W. Scott.
BATTOLOGIST
One who battologizes.
BATTOLOGIZE
To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate. Sir T. Herbert.
BATTOLOGY
A needless repetition of words in speaking or writing. Milton.
BATTON
See Batten, and Baton.
BATTURE
An elevated river bed or sea bed.
BATTUTA
The measuring of time by beating.
BATTY
Belonging to, or resembling, a bat. "Batty wings." Shak.
BATULE
A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batuleboard.
BATZ
A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly currentin some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about fourcents.
BAUBEE
Same as Bawbee.
BAUBLING
, a. See Bawbling. [Obs.]
BAUDEKIN
The richest kind of stuff used in garments in the Middle Ages,the web being gold, and the woof silk, with embroidery : -- madeoriginally at Bagdad. [Spelt also baudkin, baudkyn, bawdekin, andbaldakin.] Nares.
BAUDRICK
A belt. See Baldric.
BAUME
Designating or conforming to either of the scales used by theFrench chemist Antoine Baumรฉ in the graduation of his hydrometers; ofor relating to Baumรฉ's scales or hydrometers. There are two Baumรฉhydrometers. One, which is used with liquids heavier than water,sinks to 0ยบ in pure water, and to 15ยบ in a 15 per cent salt solution;the other, for liquids lighter than water, sinks to 0ยบ in a 10 percent salt solution and to 10ยบ in pure water. In both cases thegraduation, based on the distance between these fundamental points,is continued along the stem as far as desired. Since all the degreeson a Baumรฉ scale are thus equal in length, while those on a specific-gravity scale grow smaller as the density increases, there is nosimple relation between degrees Bรฉ. and Sp. gr. However, readings onBaumรฉs scale may be approximately reduced to specific gravities bythe following formulรฆ (x in each case being the reading on Baumรฉ'sscale) : (a) for liquids heavier than water, sp. gr. = 144 รท (144 -x);(b) for liquids lighter than water, sp. gr. = 144 รท (134 + x).
BAUNSCHEIDTISM
A form of acupuncture, followed by the rubbing of the part witha stimulating fluid.
BAVARDAGE
Much talking; prattle; chatter.  Byron.
BAVARIAN
Of or pertaining to Bavaria.-- n.
BAVAROY
A kind of cloak or surtout. [Obs.] Johnson.Let the looped bavaroy the fop embrace. Gay.
BAVIAN
A baboon.
BAWBEE
A halfpenny. [Spelt also baubee.] [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
BAWBLE
A trinket. See Bauble.
BAWBLING
Insignificant; contemptible. [Obs.]
BAWCOCK
A fine fellow; -- a term of endearment. [Obs.] "How now, mybawcock " Shak.
BAWD
A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures womenfor a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; --usually applied to a woman.
BAWDILY
Obscenely; lewdly.
BAWDINESS
Obscenity; lewdness.
BAWDRICK
A belt. See Baldric.
BAWDYHOUSE
A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel.
BAWHORSE
Same as Bathorse.
BAWL
To proclaim with a loud voice, or by outcry, as a hawker ortown-crier does. Swift.
BAWLER
One who bawls.
BAWREL
A kind of hawk. [Obs.] Halliwell.
BAXTER
A baker; originally, a female baker. [Old Eng. & Scotch]
BAY
Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to thecolor of horses. Bay cat (Zoรถl.), a wild cat of Africa and the EastIndies (Felis aurata).-- Bay lynx (Zoรถl.), the common American lynx (Felis, or Lynx,rufa).
BAY ICE
See under Ice.
BAY LEAF
See under 3d Bay.
BAY RUM
A fragrant liquid, used for cosmetic and medicinal purposes.
BAY SALT
Salt which has been obtained from sea water, by evaporation inshallow pits or basins, by the heat of the sun; the large crystallinesalt of commerce. Bacon. Ure.
BAY STATE
Massachusetts, which had been called the Colony ofMassachusetts Bay; -- a nickname.
BAY TREE
A species of laurel. (Laurus nobilis).
BAY WINDOW
A window forming a bay or recess in a room, and projectingoutward from the wall, either in a rectangular, polygonal, orsemicircular form; -- often corruptly called a bow window.
BAY YARN
Woolen yarn. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
BAY-ANTLER
The second tine of a stag's horn. See under Antler.
BAYA
The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus).
BAYADERE
A female dancer in the East Indies. [Written also bajadere.]
BAYAMO
A violent thunder squall occurring on the south coast of Cuba,esp. near Bayamo. The gusts, called bayamo winds, are modified foehnwinds.
BAYARD
Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in thephrase blind bayard, an old blind horse.Blind bayard moves the mill. Philips.
BAYARDLY
Blind; stupid. [Obs.] "A formal and bayardly round of duties."Goodman.
BAYBOLT
A bolt with a barbed shank.
BAYED
Having a bay or bays. "The large bayed barn." Drayton.
BAYEUX TAPESTRY
A piece of linen about 1 ft. 8 in. wide by 213 ft. long,covered with embroidery representing the incidents of William theConqueror's expedition to England, preserved in the town museum ofBayeux in Normandy. It is probably of the 11th century, and isattributed by tradition to Matilda, the Conqueror's wife.
BAYMAN
In the United States navy, a sick-bay nurse; -- now officiallydesignated as hospital apprentice.
BAYONET
A pointed instrument of the dagger kind fitted on the muzzle ofa musket or rifle, so as to give the soldier increased means ofoffense and defense.
BAYOU
An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a largeriver, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movementexcept from tide and wind. [Southern U. S.]A dark slender thread of a bayou moves loiteringly northeastward intoa swamp of huge cypresses. G. W. Cable.
BAYOU STATE
Mississippi; -- a nickname, from its numerous bayous.
BDELLOIDEA
The order of Annulata which includes the leeches. SeeHirudinea.
BDELLOMETER
A cupping glass to which are attached a scarificator and anexhausting syringe. Dunglison.
BDELLOMORPHA
An order of Nemertina, including the large leechlike worms(Malacobdella) often parasitic in clams.
BE
A prefix, originally the same word as by; joined with verbs, itserves: (a) To intensify the meaning; as, bespatter, bestir. (b) Torender an intransitive verb transitive; as, befall (to fall upon);bespeak (to speak for). (c) To make the action of a verb particularor definite; as, beget (to get as offspring); beset (to set around).
BE-ALL
The whole; all that is to be. [Poetic] Shak.
BEACH
To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; tostrand; as, to beach a ship.
BEACH COMBER
A long, curling wave rolling in from the ocean. See Comber.[Amer.]
BEACHY
Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches;shingly.The beachy girdle of the ocean. Shak.
BEACONAGE
Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons,collectively.
BEACONLESS
Having no beacon.
BEAD
To ornament with beads or beading.
BEADING
Molding in imitation of beads.
BEADLERY
Office or jurisdiction of a beadle.
BEADLESHIP
The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle. A. Wood.
BEADROLL
A catalogue of persons, for the rest of whose souls a certainnumber of prayers are to be said or counted off on the beads of achaplet; hence, a catalogue in general.On Fame's eternal beadroll worthy to be field. Spenser.It is quite startling, on going over the beadroll of Englishworthies, to find how few are directly represented in the male line.Quart. Rev.
BEADSNAKE
A small poisonous snake of North America (Elaps fulvius),banded with yellow, red, and black.
BEADWORK
Ornamental work in beads.
BEAK
1. (Zoรถl.) (a) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a hornysheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the foodand habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification ofbirds. (b) A similar bill in other animals, as the turtles. (c) Thelong projecting sucking mouth of some insects, and otherinvertebrates, as in the Hemiptera. (d) The upper or projecting partof the shell, near the hinge of a bivalve. (e) The prolongation ofcertain univalve shells containing the canal.
BEAKED
Furnished with a process or a mouth like a beak; rostrate.Beaked whale (Zoรถl.), a cetacean of the genus Hyperoodon; thebottlehead whale.
BEAKHEAD
An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a headwith a beak. Parker.
BEAKIRON
A bickern; a bench anvil with a long beak, adapted to reach theinterior surface of sheet metal ware; the horn of an anvil.
BEAL
A small inflammatory tumor; a pustule. [Prov. Eng.]
BEAM
A heavy iron lever having an oscillating motion on a centralaxis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which itreceives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; --called also working beam or walking beam.
BEAM TREE
A tree (Pyrus aria) related to the apple.
BEAMBIRD
A small European flycatcher (Muscicapa gricola), so calledbecause it often nests on a beam in a building.
BEAMED
Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag.Tost his beamed frontlet to the sky. Sir W. Scott.
BEAMFUL
Beamy; radiant.
BEAMILY
In a beaming manner.
BEAMINESS
The state of being beamy.
BEAMING
Emitting beams; radiant.
BEAMINGLY
In a beaming manner; radiantly.
BEAMLET
A small beam of light.
BEAN
A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chieflyof the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs.
BEAN CAPER
A deciduous plant of warm climates, generally with fleshyleaves and flowers of a yellow or whitish yellow color, of the genusZygophyllum.
BEAN TREFOIL
A leguminous shrub of southern Europe, with trifoliate leaves(Anagyris foetida).
BEAR
A bier. [Obs.] Spenser.
BEAR STATE
Arkansas; -- a nickname, from the many bears once inhabitingits forests.
BEAR-TRAP DAM
A kind of movable dam, in one form consisting of two leavesresting against each other at the top when raised and folding downone over the other when lowered, for deepening shallow parts in ariver.
BEARABLE
Capable of being borne or endured; tolerable.-- Bear"a*bly, adv.
BEARBERRY
A trailing plant of the heath family (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi),having leaves which are tonic and astringent, and glossy red berriesof which bears are said to be fond.
BEARBIND
The bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).
BEARD
Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard ofgrain.
BEARDED
Having a beard. "Bearded fellow." Shak. "Bearded grain."Dryden. Bearded vulture, Bearded eagle. (Zoรถl.) See Lammergeir.-- Bearded tortoise. (Zoรถl.) See Matamata.
BEARDIE
The bearded loach (Nemachilus barbatus) of Europe. [Scot.]
BEARDLESSNESS
The state or quality of being destitute of beard.
BEARER
One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for thepayment of money; as, pay to bearer.
BEARHERD
A man who tends a bear.
BEARHOUND
A hound for baiting or hunting bears. Car
BEARING
Any single emblem or charge in an escutcheon or coat of arms --commonly in the pl.A carriage covered with armorial bearings. Thackeray.
BEARING CLOTH
A cloth with which a child is covered when carried to bebaptized. Shak.
BEARING REIN
A short rein looped over the check hook or the hames to keepthe horse's head up; -- called in the United States a checkrein.
BEARING RING
In a balloon, the braced wooden ring attached to the suspensionropes at the bottom, functionally analogous to the keel of a ship.
BEARISH
Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear intemper or manners. Harris.
BEARISHNESS
Behavior like that of a bear.
BEARN
See Bairn. [Obs.]
BEARSKIN
A large bivalve shell of the East Indies (Hippopus maculatus),often used as an ornament.
BEARWARD
A keeper of bears. See Bearherd. [R.] Shak.
BEASTHOOD
State or nature of a beast.
BEASTINGS
See Biestings.
BEASTLIHEAD
Beastliness. [Obs.] Spenser.
BEASTLIKE
Like a beast.
BEASTLINESS
The state or quality of being beastly.
BEAT
To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat ofdrum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beatthe general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley,etc. To beat down, to haggle with (any one) to secure a lower price;to force down. [Colloq.] -- To beat into, to teach or instill, byrepetition.-- To beat off, to repel or drive back.-- To beat out, to extend by hammering.-- To beat out of a thing, to cause to relinquish it, or give it up."Nor can anything beat their posterity out of it to this day." South.-- To beat the dust. (Man.) (a) To take in too little ground withthe fore legs, as a horse. (b) To perform curvets too precipitatelyor too low.-- To beat the hoof, to walk; to go on foot.-- To beat the wing, to flutter; to move with fluttering agitation.-- To beat time, to measure or regulate time in music by the motionof the hand or foot.-- To beat up, to attack suddenly; to alarm or disturb; as, to beatup an enemy's quarters.
BEATH
To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood. [Obs.]Spenser.
BEATIFICATE
To beatify. [Obs.] Fuller.
BEATIFICATION
The act of beatifying, or the state of being beatified; esp.,in the R. C. Church, the act or process of ascertaining and declaringthat a deceased person is one of "the blessed," or has attained thesecond degree of sanctity, -- usually a stage in the process ofcanonization. "The beatification of his spirit." Jer. Taylor.
BEATIFY
To ascertain and declare, by a public process and decree, thata deceased person is one of "the blessed" and is to be reverenced assuch, though not canonized.
BEATING
Pulsative sounds. See Beat, n.
BEATITUDE
Beatification. Milman.
BEAU IDEAL
A conception or image of consummate beauty, moral or physical,formed in the mind, free from all the deformities, defects, andblemishes seen in actual existence; an ideal or faultless standard ormodel.
BEAU MONDE
The fashionable world; people of fashion and gayety. Prior.
BEAUCATCHER
A small flat curl worn on the temple by women. [Humorous]
BEAUFET
A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.;a buffet.A beaufet . . . filled with gold and silver vessels. Prescott.
BEAUFIN
See Biffin. Wright.
BEAUISH
Like a beau; characteristic of a beau; foppish; fine. "Abeauish young spark." Byrom.
BEAUMONTAGUE
A cement used in making joints, filling cracks, etc.  For iron,the principal constituents are iron borings and sal ammoniac; forwood, white lead or litharge, whiting, and linseed oil.
BEAUSEANT
The black and white standard of the Knights Templars.
BEAUSHIP
The state of being a beau; the personality of a beau. [Jocular]Dryden.
BEAUTEOUS
Full of beauty; beautiful; very handsome. [Mostly poetic] --Beau"te*ous*ly, adv. --
BEAUTIED
Beautiful; embellished. [Poetic] Shak.
BEAUTIFIER
One who, or that which, beautifies or makes beautiful.
BEAUTIFUL
Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to thesight or the mind.A circle is more beautiful than a square; a square is more beautifulthan a parallelogram. Lord Kames.
BEAUTIFY
To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; todeck; to grace; to embellish.The arts that beautify and polish life. Burke.
BEAUTILESS
Destitute of beauty. Hammond.
BEAUX
pl. of Beau.
BEAUXITE
See Bauxite.
BEAVER
An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor.
BEAVER STATE
Oregon; -- a nickname.
BEAVERED
Covered with, or wearing, a beaver or hat. "His beavered brow."Pope.
BEAVERTEEN
A kind of fustian made of coarse twilled cotton, shorn afterdyeing. Simmonds.
BEBEERU
A tropical South American tree (Nectandra Rodioi), the bark ofwhich yields the alkaloid bebeerine, and the wood of which is knownas green heart.
BEBLEED
To make bloody; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEBLOT
To blot; to stain. Chaucer.
BEBLUBBER
To make swollen and disfigured or sullied by weeping; as, hereyes or cheeks were beblubbered.
BEBUNG
A tremolo effect, such as that produced on the piano byvibratory repetition of a note with sustained use of the pedal.
BECAME
of Become.
BECARD
A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityrainquisetor).
BECCABUNGA
See Brooklime.
BECCAFICO
A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by theItalians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fedon figs, grapes, etc.
BECHAMEL
A rich, white sauce, prepared with butter and cream.
BECHANCE
By chance; by accident. [Obs.] Grafton.
BECHARM
To charm; to captivate.
BECHE DE MER
The trepang.
BECHIC
Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough. Thomas.-- n.
BECHUANAS
A division of the Bantus, dwelling between the Orange andZambezi rivers, supposed to be the most ancient Bantu population ofSouth Africa. They are divided into totemic clans; they areintelligent and progressive.
BECK
See Beak. [Obs.] Spenser.
BECKER
A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream orbraise.
BECKET
A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope
BECKON
To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motionof the hand.His distant friends, he beckons near. Dryden.It beckons you to go away with it. Shak.
BECLAP
To catch; to grasp; to insnare. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BECLIP
To embrace; to surround. [Obs.] Wyclif.
BECLOUD
To cause obscurity or dimness to; to dim; to cloud.If thou becloud the sunshine of thine eye. Quarles.
BECOME
To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; toaccord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, orproper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things.It becomes me so to speak of so excellent a poet. Dryden.I have known persons so anxious to have their dress become them, asto convert it, at length, into their proper self, and thus actuallyto become the dress. Coleridge.
BECOMED
Proper; decorous. [Obs.]And gave him what becomed love I might. Shak.
BECOMING
Appropriate or fit; congruous; suitable; graceful; befitting.A low and becoming tone. Thackeray.
BECOMINGLY
In a becoming manner.
BECOMINGNESS
The quality of being becoming, appropriate, or fit; congruity;fitness.The becomingness of human nature. Grew.
BECQUEREL RAYS
Radiations first observed by the French physicist HenriBecquerel, in working with uranium and its compounds. They consist ofa mixture of alpha, beta, and gamma rays.
BECRIPPLE
To make a cripple of; to cripple; to lame. [R.] Dr. H. More.
BECUNA
A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyrรฆna spet). See Barracuda.
BECURL
To curl; to adorn with curls.
BED
A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers; as, abed of coal, iron, etc.
BED ROCK
The solid rock underlying superficial formations. Also Fig.
BED STEPS
Steps for mounting a bed of unusual height.
BEDABBLE
To dabble; to sprinkle or wet. Shak.
BEDAFF
To make a daff or fool of. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEDAGAT
The sacred books of the Buddhists in Burmah. Malcom.
BEDAGGLE
To daggle.
BEDASH
To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; tobespatter. "Trees bedashed with rain." Shak.
BEDAUB
To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.Bedaub foul designs with a fair varnish. Barrow.
BEDAZZLE
To dazzle or make dim by a strong light. "Bedazzled with thesun." Shak.
BEDBUG
A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (CimexLectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
BEDCHAIR
A chair with adjustable back, for the sick, to support themwhile sitting up in bed.
BEDCHAMBER
A chamber for a bed; an apartment form sleeping in. Shak. Lordsof the bedchamber, eight officers of the royal household, all ofnoble families, who wait in turn a week each. [Eng.] -- Ladies of thebedchamber, eight ladies, all titled, holding a similar officialposition in the royal household, during the reign of a queen. [Eng.]
BEDCLOTHES
Blankets, sheets, coverlets, etc., for a bed. Shak.
BEDCORD
A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support thebed.
BEDDED
Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arrangedin a bed or beds.
BEDDING
The state or position of beds and layers.
BEDE
To pray; also, to offer; to proffer. [Obs.] R. of Gloucester.Chaucer.
BEDECK
To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace.Bedecked with boughs, flowers, and garlands. Pennant.
BEDEHOUSE
,n.Same as Beadhouse.
BEDELRY
Beadleship. [Obs.] Blount.
BEDEN
The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana). It is probablythe wild goat of the Bible.
BEDESMAN
Same as Beadsman. [Obs.]
BEDEVILMENT
The state of being bedeviled; bewildering confusion; vexatioustrouble. [Colloq.]
BEDEW
To moisten with dew, or as with dew. "Falling tears his facebedew." Dryden.
BEDEWER
One who, or that which, bedews.
BEDEWY
Moist with dew; dewy. [Obs.]Night with her bedewy wings. A. Brewer.
BEDFELLOW
One who lies with another in the same bed; a person who sharesone's couch.
BEDGOWN
A nightgown.
BEDIGHT
To bedeck; to array or equip; to adorn. [Archaic] Milton.
BEDIM
To make dim; to obscure or darken. Shak.
BEDIZEN
To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste.Remnants of tapestried hangings, . . . and shreds of pictures withwhich he had bedizened his tatters. Sir W. Scott.
BEDIZENMENT
That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of beingdressed, tawdrily.
BEDKEY
An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead.
BEDLAM
Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse. "The bedlam, brainsickduchess." Shak.
BEDLAMITE
An inhabitant of a madhouse; a madman. "Raving bedlamites."Beattie.
BEDMAKER
One who makes beds.
BEDOTE
To cause to dote; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEDOUIN
One of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scatteredover Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts.-- Bed"ou*in*ism (, n.
BEDPHERE
See Bedfere. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
BEDQUILT
A quilt for a bed; a coverlet.
BEDRABBLE
To befoul with rain and mud; to drabble.
BEDRAGGLE
To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, aresuffered to drag in dust, mud, etc. Swift.
BEDRENCH
To drench; to saturate with moisture; to soak. Shak.
BEDRIBBLE
To dribble upon.
BEDRIZZLE
To drizzle upon.
BEDROP
To sprinkle, as with drops.The yellow carp, in scales bedropped with gold. Pope.
BEDRUG
To drug abundantly or excessively.
BEDSIDE
The side of a bed.
BEDSITE
A recess in a room for a bed.Of the three bedrooms, two have fireplaces, and all are of fair size,with windows and bedsite well placed. Quart. Rev.
BEDSORE
A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time inbed.
BEDSPREAD
A bedquilt; a counterpane; a coverlet. [U. S.]
BEDSTAFF
"A wooden pin stuck anciently on the sides of the bedstead, tohold the clothes from slipping on either side." Johnson.Hostess, accommodate us with a bedstaff. B. Jonson.Say there is no virtue in cudgels and bedstaves. Brome.
BEDSTEAD
A framework for supporting a bed.
BEDSTOCK
The front or the back part of the frame of a bedstead. [Obs. orDial. Eng.]
BEDSTRAW
A genus of slender herbs, usually with square stems, whorledleaves, and small white flowers. Our Lady's bedstraw, which hasyellow flowers, is Galium verum.-- White bedstraw is G. mollugo.
BEDSWERVER
One who swerves from and is unfaithful to the marriage vow.[Poetic] Shak.
BEDTICK
A tick or bag made of cloth, used for inclosing the materialsof a bed.
BEDTIME
The time to go to bed. Shak.
BEDUCK
To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse. "Deep himselfbeducked." Spenser.
BEDUIN
See Bedouin.
BEDUNG
To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile,literally or figuratively. Bp. Hall.
BEDUST
To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust. Sherwood.
BEDWARD
Towards bed.
BEDWARF
To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf.Donne.
BEDYE
To dye or stain.Briton fields with Sarazin blood bedyed. Spenser.
BEE
p. p. of Be; -- used for been. [Obs.] Spenser.
BEE LARKSPUR
(Bot.) See Larkspur.
BEE LINE
The shortest line from one place to another, like that of a beeto its hive when loaded with honey; an air line. "A bee line for thebrig." Kane.
BEEBREAD
A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells ofhoneycomb. It is made chiefly from the pollen of flowers, which iscollected by bees as food for their young.
BEECH
A tree of the genus Fagus.
BEECH TREE
The beech.
BEECHEN
Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech;belonging to the beech. "Plain beechen vessels." Dryden.
BEECHNUT
The nut of the beech tree.
BEECHY
Of or relating to beeches.
BEEF
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef. Beef tea, essence ofbeef, or strong beef broth.
BEEF-WITTED
Stupid; dull. Shak.
BEEFEATER
An African bird of the genus Buphaga, which feeds on the larvยฏf botflies hatched under the skin of oxen, antelopes, etc. Twospecies are known.
BEEFSTEAK
A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable forbroiling.
BEEFWOOD
An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used forcabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales,and Banksia compar of Queensland.
BEEFY
Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef;fleshy.
BEEHIVE
A hive for a swarm of bees. Also used figuratively.
BEEHOUSE
A house for bees; an apiary.
BEELD
Same as Beild. Fairfax.
BEELZEBUB
The title of a heathen deity to whom the Jews ascribed thesovereignty of the evil spirits; hence, the Devil or a devil. SeeBaal.
BEEM
A trumpet. [Obs.]
BEEMASTER
One who keeps bees.
BEEN
The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr.tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee.Assembled been a senate grave and stout. Fairfax.
BEEREGAR
Sour beer. [Obs.]
BEERHOUSE
A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse.
BEERINESS
Beery condition.
BEERY
Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin.
BEESTINGS
Same as Biestings.
BEESWAX
The wax secreted by bees, and of which their cells areconstructed.
BEESWING
The second crust formed in port and some other wines after longkeeping. It consists of pure, shining scales of tartar, supposed toresemble the wing of a bee.
BEET
A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edibleroot the first year and seed the second year.
BEET RADISH
Same as Beetrave.
BEETLE
Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having four wings, theouter pair being stiff cases for covering the others when they arefolded up. See Coleoptera. Beetle mite (Zoรถl.), one of many speciesof mites, of the family Oribatidรฆ, parasitic on beetles.-- Black beetle, the common large black cockroach (Blattaorientalis).
BEETLE BROW
An overhanging brow.
BEETLE-BROWED
Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.
BEETLE-HEADED
Dull; stupid. Shak.
BEETLEHEAD
The black-bellied plover, or bullhead (Squatarola helvetica).See Plover.
BEETLESTOCK
The handle of a beetle.
BEETRAVE
The common beet (Beta vulgaris).
BEEVE
A beef; a beef creature.They would knock down the first beeve they met with. W. Irving.
BEEVES
; plural of Beef, the animal.
BEFALL
To happen to.I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me.Shak.
BEFIT
To be suitable to; to suit; to become.That name best befits thee. Milton.
BEFITTING
Suitable; proper; becoming; fitting.
BEFITTINGLY
In a befitting manner; suitably.
BEFLATTER
To flatter excessively.
BEFLOWER
To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.Hobbes.
BEFOREHAND
In comfortable circumstances as regards property; forehanded.Rich and much beforehand. Bacon.
BEFORETIME
Formerly; aforetime.[They] dwelt in their tents, as beforetime. 2 Kings xiii. 5.
BEFORTUNE
To befall. [Poetic]I wish all good befortune you. Shak.
BEFRIEND
To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, orcountenance.By the darkness befriended. Longfellow.
BEFRIENDMENT
Act of befriending. [R.]
BEFRILL
To furnish or deck with a frill.
BEFRINGE
To furnish with a fringe; to form a fringe upon; to adorn aswith fringe. Fuller.
BEFUDDLE
To becloud and confuse, as with liquor.
BEG
A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East;a bey.
BEGA
See Bigha.
BEGEM
To adorn with gems, or as with gems.Begemmed with dewdrops. Sir W. Scott.Those lonely realms bright garden isles begem. Shelley.
BEGETTER
One who begets; a father.
BEGGABLE
Capable of being begged.
BEGGARHOOD
The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars.
BEGGARISM
Beggary. [R.]
BEGGARLINESS
The quality or state of being beggarly; meanness.
BEGGARLY
In an indigent, mean, or despicable manner; in the manner of abeggar.
BEGGARY
Beggarly. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
BEGGESTERE
A beggar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEGILD
To gild. B. Jonson.
BEGIN
Beginning. [Poetic & Obs.] Spenser.
BEGINNER
One who begins or originates anything. Specifically: A young orinexperienced practitioner or student; a tyro.A sermon of a new beginner. Swift.
BEGIRDLE
To surround as with a girdle.
BEGIRT
To encompass; to begird. Milton.
BEGLERBEG
The governor of a province of the Ottoman empire, next indignity to the grand vizier.
BEGNAW
To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode.The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul. Shak.
BEGOD
To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify. [Obs.] "Begoddedsaints." South.
BEGOHM
A unit of resistance equal to one billion ohms, or one thousandmegohms.
BEGONE
Go away; depart; get you gone.
BEGONIA
A genus of plants, mostly of tropical America, many species ofwhich are grown as ornamental plants. The leaves are curiously one-sided, and often exhibit brilliant colors.
BEGORE
To besmear with gore.
BEGOT
imp. & p. p. of Beget.
BEGOTTEN
p. p. of Beget.
BEGRAVE
To bury; also, to engrave. [Obs.] Gower.
BEGREASE
To soil or daub with grease or other oily matter.
BEGRIME
To soil with grime or dirt deeply impressed or rubbed in.Books falling to pieces and begrimed with dust. Macaulay.
BEGRIMER
One who, or that which, begrimes.
BEGRUDGE
To grudge; to envy the possession of.
BEGUILEMENT
The act of beguiling, or the state of being beguiled.
BEGUILER
One who, or that which, beguiles.
BEGUILING
Alluring by guile; deluding; misleading; diverting.-- Be*guil"ing*ly, adv.
BEGUIN
See Beghard.
BEGUINAGE
A collection of small houses surrounded by a wall and occupiedby a community of Beguines.
BEGUINE
A woman belonging to one of the religious and charitableassociations or communities in the Netherlands, and elsewhere, whosemembers live in beguinages and are not bound by perpetual vows.
BEGUM
In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank. Malcom.
BEGUN
of Begin.
BEHALF
Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support;defense; vindication.In behalf of his mistress's beauty. Sir P. Sidney.Against whom he had contracted some prejudice in behalf of hisnation. Clarendon.In behalf of, in the interest of.-- On behalf of, on account of; on the part of.
BEHAPPEN
To happen to. [Obs.]
BEHAVE
To act; to conduct; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behavewell or ill.
BEHAVIOR
Manner of behaving, whether good or bad; mode of conductingone's self; conduct; deportment; carriage; -- used also of inanimateobjects; as, the behavior of a ship in a storm; the behavior of themagnetic needle.A gentleman that is very singular in his behavior. Steele.To be upon one's good behavior, To be put upon one's good behavior,to be in a state of trial, in which something important depends onpropriety of conduct.-- During good behavior, while (or so long as) one conducts one'sself with integrity and fidelity or with propriety.
BEHEAD
To sever the head from; to take off the head of.
BEHEADAL
,n.Beheading. [Modern]
BEHELD
imp. & p. p. of Behold.
BEHEMOTH
An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15-24.
BEHEST
To vow. [Obs.] Paston.
BEHETE
See Behight. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEHIGHT
A vow; a promise. [Obs.] Surrey.
BEHIND
The backside; the rump. [Low]
BEHITHER
On this side of. [Obs.]Two miles behither Clifden. Evelyn.
BEHOLD
To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard withthe eyes.When he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Num. xxi. 9.Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John.i. 29.
BEHOLDEN
Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted.But being so beholden to the Prince. Tennyson.
BEHOLDER
One who beholds; a spectator.
BEHOLDING
Obliged; beholden. [Obs.]I was much bound and beholding to the right reverend father. Robynson(More's Utopia).So much hath Oxford been beholding to her nephews, or sister'schildren. Fuller.
BEHOLDINGNESS
, The state of being obliged or beholden. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
BEHOOF
Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use.No mean recompense it brings To your behoof. Milton.
BEHOOVABLE
Supplying need; profitable; advantageous. [Obs.] Udall.
BEHOOVE
To be necessary for; to be fit for; to be meet for, withrespect to necessity, duty, or convenience; -- mostly usedimpersonally.And thus it behooved Christ to suffer. Luke xxiv. 46.[Also written behove.]
BEHOOVEFUL
Advantageous; useful; profitable. [Archaic] -- Be*hoove"ful*ly,adv.-- Be*hoove"ful*ness, n. [Archaic]
BEHOVE
, and derivatives. See Behoove, & c.
BEHOVELY
Useful, or usefully. [Obs.]
BEHOWL
To howl at. [Obs.]The wolf behowls the moon. Shak.
BEIGE
Debeige.
BEILD
A place of shelter; protection; refuge. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.][Also written bield and beeld.]The random beild o' clod or stane. Burns.
BEING
Existing.
BEJADE
To jade or tire. [Obs.] Milton.
BEJAPE
To jape; to laugh at; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEJAUNDICE
To infect with jaundice.
BEJEWEL
To ornament with a jewel or with jewels; to spangle. "Bejeweledhands." Thackeray.
BEJUCO
Any climbing woody vine of the tropics with the habit of aliane; in the Philippines, esp. any of various species of Calamus,the cane or rattan palm.
BEJUMBLE
To jumble together.
BEKAH
Half a shekel.
BEKNAVE
To call knave. [Obs.] Pope.
BEKNOW
To confess; to acknowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEL
The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal.See Baal. Baruch vi. 41.
BEL-ACCOYLE
A kind or favorable reception or salutation. [Obs.]
BEL-ESPRIT
A fine genius, or man of wit. "A man of letters and a belesprit." W. Irving.
BELAM
To beat or bang. [Prov. & Low, Eng.] Todd.
BELAMY
Good friend; dear friend. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BELATE
To retard or make too late. Davenant.
BELATED
Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night;benighted. "Some belated peasant." Milton.-- Be*lat"ed*ness, n. Milton.
BELAUD
To laud or praise greatly.
BELAY
To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it rounda pin, cleat, or kevel. Totten.
BELAYING PIN
A strong pin in the side of a vessel, or by the mast, roundwhich ropes are wound when they are fastened or belayed.
BELCHER
One who, or that which, belches.
BELEAGUER
To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege;to blockade.The wail of famine in beleaguered towns. Longfellow.
BELEAGUERER
One who beleaguers.
BELEAVE
To leave or to be left. [Obs.] May.
BELECTURE
To vex with lectures; to lecture frequently.
BELEE
To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind. Shak.
BELEMNITE
A conical calcareous fossil, tapering to a point at the lowerextremity, with a conical cavity at the other end, where it isordinarily broken; but when perfect it contains a small chamberedcone, called the phragmocone, prolonged, on one side, into a delicateconcave blade; the thunderstone. It is the internal shell of acephalopod related to the sepia, and belonging to an extinct family.The belemnites are found in rocks of the Jurassic and Cretaceousages.-- Bel*em*nit"ic, a.
BELEPER
To infect with leprosy. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
BELFRY
A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack anddefense.
BELGARD
A sweet or loving look. [Obs.] Spenser.
BELGIAN
Of or pertaining to Belgium.-- n.
BELGIAN BLOCK
A nearly cubical block of some tough stone, esp. granite, usedas a material for street pavements. Its usual diameter is 5 to 7inches.
BELGRAVIAN
Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, aroundPimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic.
BELIAL
An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; thepersonification of evil.What concord hath Christ with Belia 2 Cor. vi. 15.A son (or man) of Belial, a worthless, wicked, or thoroughly depravedperson. 1 Sam. ii. 12.
BELIBEL
To libel or traduce; to calumniate. Fuller.
BELIEF
A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith.No man can attain [to] belief by the bare contemplation of heaven andearth. Hooker.
BELIEFFUL
Having belief or faith.
BELIEVABLE
Capable of being believed; credible.-- Be*liev"a*ble*ness, n.-- Be*liev`a*bil"i*ty (, n.
BELIEVE
To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority ortestimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidencefurnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or bycircumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept astrue; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe aperson, a statement, or a doctrine.Our conqueror (whom I now Of force believe almighty). Milton.King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets Acts xxvi.Often followed by a dependent clause. I believe that Jesus Christ isthe Son of God. Acts viii. 37.
BELIEVER
One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as arevelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, onewho receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvationunfolded in the gospel.Thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. Book of Com.Prayer.
BELIEVING
That believes; having belief.-- Be*liev"ing*ly, adv.
BELIGHT
To illuminate. [Obs.] Cowley.
BELIKE
It is likely or probably; perhaps. [Obs. or Archaic] --Be*like"ly, adv.Belike, boy, then you are in love. Shak.
BELIME
To besmear or insnare with birdlime.
BELITTLE
To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in adepreciatory or contemptuous way. T. Jefferson.
BELIVE
Forthwith; speedily; quickly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BELK
To vomit. [Obs.]
BELL
That part of the capital of a column included between theabacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearlycylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital.
BELL ANIMALCULE
An infusorian of the family Vorticellidรฆ, common in fresh-waterponds.
BELL BEARER
A Brazilian leaf hopper (Bocydium tintinnabuliferum),remarkable for the four bell-shaped appendages of its thorax.
BELL CRANK
A lever whose two arms form a right angle, or nearly a rightangle, having its fulcrum at the apex of the angle. It is used inbell pulls and in changing the direction of bell wires at angles ofrooms, etc., and also in machinery.
BELL JAR
A glass vessel, varying in size, open at the bottom and closedat the top like a bell, and having a knob or handle at the top forlifting it. It is used for a great variety of purposes; as, with theair pump, and for holding gases, also for keeping the dust fromarticles exposed to view.
BELL METAL
A hard alloy or bronze, consisting usually of about three partsof copper to one of tin; -- used for making bells. Bell metal ore, asulphide of tin, copper, and iron; the mineral stannite.
BELL PEPPER
A species of Capsicum, or Guinea pepper (C. annuum). It is thered pepper of the gardens.
BELL PROCESS
The process of washing molten pig iron by adding iron oxide,proposed by I. Lowthian Bell of England about 1875.
BELL SYSTEM OF CONTROL
See Cloche.
BELL-FACED
Having the striking surface convex; -- said of hammers.
BELL-MOUTHED
Expanding at the mouth; as, a bell-mouthed gun. Byron.
BELL-SHAPED
Having the shape of a widemouthed bell; campanulate.
BELLARMINE
A stoneware jug of a pattern originated in the neighborhood ofCologne, Germany, in the 16th century. It has a bearded face or masksupposed to represent Cardinal Bellarmine, a leader in the RomanCatholic Counter Reformation, following the Reformation; -- calledalso graybeard, longbeard.
BELLE
A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsomelady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady.
BELLE-LETTRIST
One versed in belleslettres.
BELLED
Hung with a bell or bells.
BELLEEK WARE
A porcelainlike kind of decorative pottery with a high gloss,which is sometimes iridescent. A very fine kind is made at Belleek inIreland.
BELLEROPHON
A genus of fossil univalve shells, believed to belong to theHeteropoda, peculiar to the Paleozoic age.
BELLES-LETTRES
Polite or elegant literature; the humanities; -- used somewhatvaguely for literary works in which imagination and taste arepredominant.
BELLFLOWER
A plant of the genus Campanula; -- so named from its bell-shaped flowers.
BELLIBONE
A woman excelling both in beauty and goodness; a fair maid.[Obs.] Spenser.
BELLICOSE
Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious.Arnold was, in fact, in a bellicose vein. W. Irving.
BELLICOSELY
In a bellicose manner.
BELLICOUS
Bellicose. [Obs.]
BELLIED
, a. Having (such) a belly; puffed out; -- used in composition;as, pot-bellied; shad-bellied.
BELLIGERENT
A nation or state recognized as carrying on war; a personengaged in warfare.
BELLIGERENTLY
In a belligerent manner; hostilely.
BELLING
A bellowing, as of a deer in rutting time. Johnson.
BELLIPOTENT
Mighty in war; armipotent. [R.] Blount.
BELLMAN
A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anythingin the streets. Formerly, also, a night watchman who called thehours. Milton.
BELLON
Lead colic.
BELLONA
The goddess of war.
BELLOW
To emit with a loud voice; to shout; -- used with out. "Wouldbellow out a laugh." Dryden.
BELLOWER
One who, or that which, bellows.
BELLOWS
An instrument, utensil, or machine, which, by alternateexpansion and contraction, or by rise and fall of the top, draws inair through a valve and expels it through a tube for variouspurposes, as blowing fires, ventilating mines, or filling the pipesof an organ with wind. Bellows camera, in photography, a form ofcamera, which can be drawn out like an accordion or bellows.-- Hydrostatic bellows. See Hydrostatic.-- A pair of bellows, the ordinary household instrument for blowingfires, consisting of two nearly heart-shaped boards with handles,connected by leather, and having a valve and tube.
BELLOWS FISH
A European fish (Centriscus scolopax), distinguished by a longtubular snout, like the pipe of a bellows; -- called also trumpetfish, and snipe fish.
BELLUINE
Pertaining to, or like, a beast; brutal. [R.]Animal and belluine life. Atterbury.
BELLWORT
A genus of plants (Uvularia) with yellowish bell-shapedflowers.
BELLY
The hollow part of a curved or bent timber, the convex part ofwhich is the back. Belly doublet, a doublet of the 16th century,hanging down so as to cover the belly. Shak.-- Belly fretting, the chafing of a horse's belly with a girth.Johnson.-- Belly timber, food. [Ludicrous] Prior.-- Belly worm, a worm that breeds or lives in the belly (stomach orintestines). Johnson.
BELLY-GOD
One whose great pleasure it is to gratify his appetite; aglutton; an epicure.
BELLY-PINCHED
Pinched with hunger; starved. "The belly-pinched wolf." Shak.
BELLYACHE
Pain in the bowels; colic.
BELLYBAND
A band of canvas, to strengthen a sail.
BELLYBOUND
Costive; constipated.
BELLYCHEAT
An apron or covering for the front of the person. [Obs.] Beau.& Fl.
BELLYCHEER
Good cheer; viands. [Obs.] "Bellycheer and banquets." Rowlands."Loaves and bellycheer." Milton.
BELLYFUL
As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence: A great abundance;more than enough. Lloyd.King James told his son that he would have his bellyful ofparliamentary impeachments. Johnson.
BELOCK
To lock, or fasten as with a lock. [Obs.] Shak.
BELOMANCY
A kind of divination anciently practiced by means of markedarrows drawn at random from a bag or quiver, the marks on the arrowsdrawn being supposed to foreshow the future. Encyc. Brit.
BELONG
To be deserved by. [Obs.]More evils belong us than happen to us. B. Jonson.
BELONITE
Minute acicular or dendritic crystalline forms sometimesobserved in glassy volcanic rocks.
BELOVE
To love. [Obs.] Wodroephe.
BELOVED
Greatly loved; dear to the heart.Antony, so well beloved of Cรฆsar. Shak.This is my beloved Son. Matt. iii. 17.
BELOWT
To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to. [Obs.] Camden.
BELSIRE
A grandfather, or ancestor. "His great belsire Brute." [Obs.]Drayton.
BELSWAGGER
A lewd man; also, a bully. [Obs.] Dryden.
BELT
Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termeda belt.
BELTED
See Beltane.
BELTING
The material of which belts for machinery are made; also,belts, taken collectively.
BELUGA
A cetacean allied to the dolphins.
BELUTE
To bespatter, as with mud. [R.] Sterne.
BELVEDERE
A small building, or a part of a building, more or less open,constructed in a place commanding a fine prospect.
BELZEBUTH
A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Brazil.
BEMA
A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly. Mitford.
BEMAD
To make mad. [Obs.] Fuller.
BEMANGLE
To mangle; to tear asunder. [R.] Beaumont.
BEMASK
To mask; to conceal.
BEMASTER
To master thoroughly.
BEMAUL
To maul or beat severely; to bruise. "In order to bemaulYorick." Sterne.
BEMAZE
To bewilder.Intellects bemazed in endless doubt. Cowper.
BEMEAN
To make mean; to lower. C. Reade.
BEMEET
To meet. [Obs.]Our very loving sister, well bemet. Shak.
BEMETE
To mete. [Obs.] Shak.
BEMINGLE
To mingle; to mix.
BEMIRE
To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil bypassing through mud or dirt.Bemired and benighted in the dog. Burke.
BEMIST
To envelop in mist. [Obs.]
BEMOAN
To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; tolament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.Implores their pity, and his pain bemoans. Dryden.
BEMOANER
One who bemoans.
BEMOCK
To mock; to ridicule.Bemock the modest moon. Shak.
BEMOIL
To soil or encumber with mire and dirt. [Obs.] Shak.
BEMOL
The sign [Obs.]
BEMONSTER
To make monstrous or like a monster. [Obs.] Shak.
BEMOURN
To mourn over. Wyclif.
BEMUDDLE
To muddle; to stupefy or bewilder; to confuse.
BEMUFFLE
To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up.Bemuffled with the externals of religion. Sterne.
BEMUSE
To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor.A parson much bemused in beer. Pope.
BEN
Within; in; in or into the interior; toward the innerapartment. [Scot.]
BENAME
To promise; to name. [Obs.]
BENCH
To sit on a seat of justice. [R.] Shak.
BENCH MARK
Any permanent mark to which other levels may be referred.Specif. : A horizontal mark at the water's edge with reference towhich the height of tides and floods may be measured.
BENCH WARRANT
A process issued by a presiding judge or by a court against aperson guilty of some contempt, or indicted for some crime; -- socalled in distinction from a justice's warrant.
BENCHER
One of the senior and governing members of an Inn of Court.
BEND
To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard orstay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor. Totten. To bend thebrow, to knit the brow, as in deep thought or in anger; to scowl; tofrown. Camden.
BENDABLE
Capable of being bent.
BENDING
The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands.[Obs.] Chaucer.
BENDLET
A narrow bend, esp. one half the width of the bend.
BENDWISE
Diagonally.
BENDY
Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield orits charge. Cussans.
BENE
See Benne.
BENE PLACITO
At pleasure; ad libitum.
BENEAPED
See Neaped.
BENEDICITE
A canticle (the Latin version of which begins with this word)which may be used in the order for morning prayer in the Church ofEngland. It is taken from an apocryphal addition to the third chapterof Daniel.
BENEDICT
Having mild and salubrious qualities. [Obs.] Bacon.
BENEDICTINE
Pertaining to the monks of St. Benedict, or St. Benet.
BENEDICTION
The short prayer which closes public worship; as, to give thebenediction.
BENEDICTIONAL
A book of benedictions.
BENEDICTIONARY
A collected series of benedictions.The benedictionary of Bishop Athelwold. G. Gurton's Needle.
BENEDICTIVE
Tending to bless. Gauden.
BENEDICTORY
Expressing wishes for good; as, a benedictory prayer.Thackeray.
BENEDICTUS
The song of Zacharias at the birth of John the Baptist (Luke i.68); -- so named from the first word of the Latin version.
BENEDIGHT
Blessed. [R.] Longfellow.
BENEFACTOR
One who confers a benefit or benefits. Bacon.
BENEFACTRESS
A woman who confers a benefit.His benefactress blushes at the deed. Cowper.
BENEFIC
Favorable; beneficent. Milton.
BENEFICE
An estate in lands; a fief.
BENEFICED
Possessed of a benefice o "Beneficed clergymen." Burke.
BENEFICELESS
Having no benefice. "Beneficeless precisians." Sheldon.
BENEFICENCE
The practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, orcharity; bounty springing from purity and goodness.And whose beneficence no charge exhausts. Cowper.
BENEFICENT
, a. Doing or producing good; performing acts of kindness andcharity; characterized by beneficence.The beneficent fruits of Christianity. Prescott.
BENEFICENTIAL
Relating to beneficence.
BENEFICENTLY
In a beneficent manner; with beneficence.
BENEFICIAL
Receiving, or entitled to have or receive, advantage, use, orbenefit; as, the beneficial owner of an estate. Kent.
BENEFICIALLY
In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully.
BENEFICIALNESS
The quality of being beneficial; profitableness.
BENEFICIATE
To reduce (ores).-- Ben`e*fi`ci*a"tion (n.
BENEFICIENT
Beneficent. [Obs.]
BENEFIT
Natural advantaged; endowments; accomplishments. [R.] "Thebenefits of your own country." Shak. Benefit of clergy. (Law) Seeunder Clergy.
BENEFIT SOCIETY
A society or association formed for mutual insurance, as amongtradesmen or in labor unions, to provide for relief in sickness, oldage, and for the expenses of burial. Usually called friendly societyin Great Britain.
BENEFITER
One who confers a benefit; -- also, one who receives a benefit.
BENEME
To deprive (of), or take away (from). [Obs.]
BENEMPT
of Bename.
BENET
To catch in a net; to insnare. Shak.
BENEVOLENT
Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting loveto mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness;disposed to give to good objects; kind; charitable.-- Be*nev"o*lent*ly, adv.
BENEVOLOUS
Kind; benevolent. [Obs.] T. Puller.
BENGAL
The language spoken in Bengal.
BENGALESE
Of or pertaining to Bengal.-- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Bengal.
BENGOLA
A Bengal light.
BENIGHTMENT
The condition of being benighted.
BENIGNANCY
Benignant quality; kindliness.
BENIGNANT
Kind; gracious; favorable.-- Be*nig"nant*ly, adv.
BENIGNLY
In a benign manner.
BENIM
To take away. [Obs.]Ire . . . benimeth the man fro God. Chaucer.
BENISON
Blessing; beatitude; benediction. Shak.More precious than the benison of friends. Talfourd.
BENITIER
A holy-water stoup. Shipley.
BENJAMIN
See Benzoin.
BENJAMITE
A descendant of Benjamin; one of the tribe of Benjamin. Judg.iii. 15.
BENNE
The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum),originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant. From their seeds an oilis expressed, called benne oil, used mostly for making soap. In thesouthern United States the seeds are used in candy.
BENNET
The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herbbennet. The name is sometimes given to other plants, as the hemlock,valerian, etc.
BENSHEE
See Banshee.
BENT
imp. & p. p. of Bend.
BENT GRASS
Same as Bent, a kind of grass.
BENTHAL
Relating to the deepest zone or region of the ocean.
BENTHAMIC
Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism.
BENTHAMISM
That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by JeremyBentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated anddetermined by their utility; also, the theory that the sensibility topleasure and the recoil from pain are the only motives whichinfluence human desires and actions, and that these are thesufficient explanation of ethical and jural conceptions.
BENTHAMITE
One who believes in Benthamism.
BENTHOS
The bottom of the sea, esp. of the deep oceans; hence (Bot. &Zoรถl.), the fauna and flora of the sea bottom; -- opposed toplankton.
BENTING TIME
The season when pigeons are said to feed on bents, before peasare ripe.Bare benting times . . . may come. Dryden.
BENUMB
To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; tostupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold.The creeping death benumbed her senses first. Dryden.
BENUMBED
Made torpid; numbed; stupefied; deadened; as, a benumbed bodyand mind.-- Be*numbed"ness, n.
BENUMBMENT
Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor. Kirby.
BENZAL
A transparent crystalline substance,
BENZAMIDE
A transparent crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.NH2, obtained bythe action of ammonia upon chloride of benzoyl, as also by severalother reactions with benzoyl compounds.
BENZENE
A volatile, very inflammable liquid, C6H6, contained in thenaphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from whichit is separated by fractional distillation. The name is sometimesapplied also to the impure commercial product or benzole, and also,but rarely, to a similar mixed product of petroleum. Benzene nucleus,Benzene ring (Chem.), a closed chain or ring, consisting of sixcarbon atoms, each with one hydrogen atom attached, regarded as thetype from which the aromatic compounds are derived. This ring formulais provisionally accepted as representing the probable constitutionof the benzene molecule, C6H6, and as the type on which itsderivatives are formed.
BENZILE
A yellowish crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.CO.C6H5, formed frombenzoin by the action of oxidizing agents, and consisting of adoubled benzoyl radical.
BENZOATE
A salt formed by the union of benzoic acid with any salifiablebase.
BENZOIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, benzoin. Benzoic acid, orflowers of benzoin, a peculiar vegetable acid, C6H5.CO2H, obtainedfrom benzoin, and some other balsams, by sublimation or decoction. Itis also found in the urine of infants and herbivorous animals. Itcrystallizes in the form of white, satiny flakes; its odor isaromatic; its taste is pungent, and somewhat acidulous.-- Benzoic aldehyde, oil of bitter almonds; the aldehyde, C6H5.CHO,intermediate in composition between benzoic or benzyl alcohol, andbenzoic acid. It is a thin colorless liquid.
BENZOIN
The spicebush (Lindera benzoin). Flowers of benzoin, benzoicacid. See under Benzoic.
BENZOINATED
Containing or impregnated with benzoin; as, benzoinated lard.
BENZOLINE
A white crystalline powder used as an intestinal antiseptic;beta-naphthol benzoate.
BENZOSOL
Guaiacol benzoate, used as an intestinal antiseptic and as asubstitute for creosote in phthisis. It is a colorless crystallinepewder.
BENZOYL
A compound radical, C6H5.CO; the base of benzoic acid, of theoil of bitter almonds, and of an extensive series of compounds.[Formerly written also benzule.]
BENZYL
A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoicacid; -- commonly used adjectively.
BEPAINT
To paint; to cover or color with, or as with, paint.Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek. Shak.
BEPELT
To pelt roundly.
BEPINCH
To pinch, or mark with pinches. Chapman.
BEPLASTER
To plaster over; to cover or smear thickly; to bedaub.Beplastered with rouge. Goldsmith.
BEPLUMED
Decked with feathers.
BEPOMMEL
To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail orcriticise in conversation, or in writing. Thackeray.
BEPOWDER
To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder.
BEPRAISE
To praise greatly or extravagantly. Goldsmith.
BEPROSE
To reduce to prose. [R.] "To beprose all rhyme." Mallet.
BEPUFFED
Puffed; praised. Carlyle.
BEPURPLE
To tinge or dye with a purple color.
BEQUEATHABLE
Capable of being bequeathed.
BEQUEATHAL
The act of bequeathing; bequeathment; bequest. Fuller.
BEQUEATHMENT
The act of bequeathing, or the state of being bequeathed; abequest.
BEQUEST
To bequeath, or leave as a legacy. [Obs.] "All I have tobequest." Gascoigne.
BEQUETHEN
old p. p. of Bequeath. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BEQUOTE
To quote constantly or with great frequency.
BERAIN
To rain upon; to wet with rain. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BERATE
To rate or chide vehemently; to scold. Holland. Motley.
BERATTLE
To make rattle; to scold vociferously; to cry down. [Obs.]Shak.
BERAY
TO make foul; to soil; to defile. [Obs.] Milton.
BERBE
An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet.
BERBER
A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but oftenclassed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole ofNorth Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, andwho still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles.Also, the language spoken by this people.
BERBERINE
An alkaloid obtained, as a bitter, yellow substance, from theroot of the barberry, gold thread, and other plants.
BERBERRY
See Barberry.
BERCEUSE
A vocal or instrumental composition of a soft tranquilcharacter, having a lulling effect; a cradle song.
BERDASH
,n.A kind of neckcloth. [Obs.]A treatise against the cravat and berdash. Steele.
BERE
, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OIcel. berja to strike.] To pierce. [Obs.]Chaucer.
BEREAVEMENT
The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of arelative by death.
BEREAVER
One who bereaves.
BEREFT
of Bereave.
BERETTA
Same as Berretta.
BERG
A large mass or hill, as of ice.Glittering bergs of ice. Tennyson.
BERGANDER
A European duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake.
BERGERET
A pastoral song. [Obs.]
BERGH
A hill. [Obs.]
BERGMASTER
See Barmaster.
BERGMEAL
(Min.) An earthy substance, resembling fine flour. It iscomposed of the shells of infusoria, and in Lapland and Sweden issometimes eaten, mixed with flour or ground birch bark, in times ofscarcity. This name is also given to a white powdery variety ofcalcite.
BERGMOTE
See Barmote.
BERGOMASK
A rustic dance, so called in ridicule of the people of Bergamo,in Italy, once noted for their clownishness.
BERGSCHRUND
The crevasse or series of crevasses, usually deep and oftenbroad, frequently occurring near the head of a mountain glacier,about where the nรฉvรฉ field joins the valley portion of the glacier.
BERGSTOCK
A long pole with a spike at the end, used in climbingmountains; an alpenstock.
BERGYLT
The Norway haddock. See Rosefish.
BERHYME
To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.
BERIBERI
An acute disease occurring in India, characterized by multipleinflammatory changes in the nerves, producing great musculardebility, a painful rigidity of the limbs, and cachexy.
BERIME
To berhyme.
BERING SEA CONTROVERSY
A controversy (1886 --93) between Great Britain and the UnitedStates as to the right of Canadians not licensed by the United Statesto carry on seal fishing in the Bering Sea, over which the UnitedStates claimed jurisdiction as a mare clausum. A court ofarbitration, meeting in Paris in 1893, decided against the claim ofthe United States, but established regulations for the preservationof the fur seal.
BERKELEIAN
,a.Of or relating to Bishop Berkeley or his system of idealism;as, Berkeleian philosophy.-- Berke"ley*ism, n.
BERLIN
A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and theditch.
BERMUDA GRASS
A kind of grass (Cynodon Dactylon) esteemed for pasture in theSouthern United States. It is a native of Southern Europe, but is nowwide-spread in warm countries; -- called also scutch grass, and inBermuda, devil grass.
BERMUDA LILY
The large white lily (Lilium longiflorum eximium, syn. L.Harrisii) which is extensively cultivated in Bermuda.
BERNA FLY
A Brazilian dipterous insect of the genus Trypeta, which laysits eggs in the nostrils or in wounds of man and beast, where thelarvรฆ do great injury.
BERNACLE
See Barnacle.
BERNARDINE
Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to theCistercian monks.-- n.
BERNESE
Pertaining to the city o -- n. sing. & pl.
BERNICLE
A bernicle goose. [Written also barnacle.] Bernicle goose(Zoรถl.), a goose (Branta leucopsis), of Arctic Europe and America. Itwas formerly believed that it hatched from the cirripeds of the sea(Lepas), which were, therefore, called barnacles, goose barnacles, orAnatifers. The name is also applied to other related species. SeeAnatifa and Cirripedia.
BERNOUSE
Some as Burnoose.
BEROB
To rob; to plunder. [Obs.]
BEROE
A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to theCtenophora.
BERRETTA
A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman CatholicChurch. A cardinal's berretta is scarlet; that worn by other clericsis black, except that a bishop's is lined with green. [Also speltberetta, biretta, etc.]
BERRIED
Furnished with berries; consisting of a berry; baccate; as, aberried shrub.
BERRY
A small fruit that is pulpy or succulent throughout, havingseeds loosely imbedded in the pulp, as the currant, grape, blueberry.
BERRYING
A seeking for or gathering of berries, esp. of such as growwild.
BERSEEM
An Egyptian clover (Trifolium alexandrinum) extensivelycultivated as a forage plant and soil-renewing crop in the alkalinesoils of the Nile valley, and now introduced into the southwesternUnited States. It is more succulent than other clovers or thanalfalfa. Called also Egyptian clover.
BERSTLE
See Bristle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BERTHA
A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies.
BERTHAGE
A place for mooring vessels in a dock or harbor.
BERTHIERITE
A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-graycolor.
BERTHING
The planking outside of a vessel, above the sheer strake.Smyth.
BERTILLON SYSTEM
A system for the identification of persons by a physicaldescription based upon anthropometric measurements, notes ofmarkings, deformities, color, impression of thumb lines, etc.
BERTRAM
Pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).
BERYCOID
Of or pertaining to the Berycidรฆ, a family of marine fishes.
BERYL
A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of muchbeauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluishgreen color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate ofaluminium and glucinum (beryllium). The aquamarine is a transparent,sea-green variety used as a gem. The emerald is another varietyhighly prized in jewelry, and distinguished by its deep color, whichis probably due to the presence of a little oxide of chromium.
BERYLLINE
Like a beryl; of a light or bluish green color.
BERYLLIUM
A metallic element found in the beryl. See Glucinum.
BERYLLOID
A solid consisting of a double twelve-sided pyramid; -- socalled because the planes of this form occur on crystals of beryl.
BES-ANTLER
Same as Bez-antler.
BESAINT
To make a saint of.
BESANT
See Bezant.
BESCORN
To treat with scorn. "Then was he bescorned." Chaucer.
BESCRATCH
To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches.
BESCRAWL
To cover with scrawls; to scribble over. Milton.
BESCREEN
To cover with a screen, or as with a screen; to shelter; toconceal. Shak.
BESCRIBBLE
To scribble over. "Bescribbled with impertinences." Milton.
BESEE
To see; to look; to mind. [Obs.] Wyclif.
BESEECH
Solicitation; supplication. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak.
BESEECHER
One who beseeches.
BESEECHING
Entreating urgently; imploring; as, a beseeching look.-- Be*seech"ing*ly, adv.-- Be*seech"ing*ness, n.
BESEECHMENT
The act of beseeching or entreating earnestly. [R.] Goodwin.
BESEEK
To beseech. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BESEEM
Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.) for (one)to do or to have. Hence: To be fit, suitable, or proper for, orworthy of; to become; to befit.A duty well beseeming the preachers. Clarendon.What form of speech or behavior beseemeth us, in our prayers to GodHocker.
BESEEMING
Becoming; suitable. [Archaic] -- Be*seem"ing*ly, adv.-- Be*seem"ing*ness, n.
BESEEMLY
Fit; suitable; becoming. [Archaic]In beseemly order sitten there. Shenstone.
BESETMENT
The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, thatwhich besets one, as a sin. "Fearing a besetment." Kane.
BESETTER
One who, or that which, besets.
BESETTING
Habitually attacking, harassing, or pressing upon or about; as,a besetting sin.
BESHINE
To shine upon; to ullumine.
BESHOW
A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacificcoast; -- called also candlefish.
BESHREW
To curse; to execrate.Beshrew me, but I love her heartily. Shak.
BESHROUD
To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to screen.
BESHUT
To shut up or out. [Obs.]
BESIDES
Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to;other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside.Besides your cheer, you shall have sport. Shak.
BESIEGE
To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose ofcompelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset.Till Paris was besieged, famished, and lost. Shak.
BESIEGEMENT
The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged. Golding.
BESIEGER
One who besieges; -- opposed to the besieged.
BESIEGING
That besieges; laying siege to.-- Be*sie"ging*ly, adv.
BESIT
To suit; to fit; to become. [Obs.]
BESLABBER
To beslobber.
BESLAVE
To enslave. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
BESLAVER
To defile with slaver; to beslobber.
BESLIME
To daub with slime; to soil. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
BESLOBBER
To slobber on; to smear with spittle running from the mouth.Also Fig.: as, to beslobber with praise.
BESLUBBER
To beslobber.
BESMEAR
To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; tosoil.Besmeared with precious balm. Spenser.
BESMEARER
One that besmears.
BESMIRCH
To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence: To dishonor;to sully. Shak.
BESMUT
To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.
BESNUFF
To befoul with snuff. Young.
BESOGNE
A worthless fellow; a bezonian. [Obs.]
BESOM
A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweepsaway or destroys. [Archaic or Fig.]I will sweep it with the besom of destruction. Isa. xiv. 23.The housemaid with her besom. W. Irving.
BESOMER
One who uses a besom. [Archaic]
BESORT
To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become. [Obs.]Such men as may besort your age. Shak.
BESOT
To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; toinfatuate.Fools besotted with their crimes. Hudibras.
BESOTTED
Made sottish, senseless, or infatuated; characterized bydrunken stupidity, or by infatuation; stupefied. "Besotted devotion."Sir W. Scott.-- Be*sot"ted*ly, adv.-- Be*sot"ted*ness, n. Milton.
BESOTTINGLY
In a besotting manner.
BESOUGHT
of Beseech.
BESPANGLE
To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with somethingbrilliant or glittering.The grass . . . is all bespangled with dewdrops. Cowper.
BESPAWL
To daub, soil, or make foul with spawl or spittle. [Obs.]Milton.
BESPEAK
To speak. [Obs.] Milton.
BESPEAKER
One who bespeaks.
BESPECKLE
To mark with speckles or spots. Milton.
BESPEW
To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.
BESPICE
To season with spice, or with some spicy drug. Shak.
BESPIRT
Same as Bespurt.
BESPIT
To daub or soil with spittle. Johnson.
BESPOKE
imp. & p. p. of Bespeak.
BESPOT
To mark with spots, or as with spots.
BESPREAD
To spread or cover over.The carpet which bespread His rich pavilion's floor. Glover.
BESPRENT
Sprinkled over; strewed.His face besprent with liquid crystal shines. Shenstone.The floor with tassels of fir was besprent. Longfellow.
BESPRINKLE
To sprinkle over; to scatter over.The bed besprinkles, and bedews the ground. Dryden.
BESPRINKLER
One who, or that which, besprinkles.
BESPRINKLING
The act of sprinkling anything; a sprinkling over.
BESPURT
To spurt on or over; to asperse. [Obs.] Milton.
BESSEMER STEEL
Steel made directly from cast iron, by burning out a portion ofthe carbon and other impurities that the latter contains, through theagency of a blast of air which is forced through the molten metal; --so called from Sir Henry Bessemer, an English engineer, the inventorof the process.
BEST
Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing,or being, or action; as, to do one's best; to the best of ourability. At best, in the utmost degree or extent applicable to thecase; under the most favorable circumstances; as, life is at bestvery short.-- For best, finally. [Obs.] "Those constitutions . . . are nowestablished for best, and not to be mended." Milton.-- To get the best of, to gain an advantage over, whether fairly orunfairly.-- To make the best of. (a) To improve to the utmost; to use ordispose of to the greatest advantage. "Let there be freedom to carrytheir commodities where they can make the best of them." Bacon. (b)To reduce to the least possible inconvenience; as, to make the bestof ill fortune or a bad bargain.
BESTAD
Beset; put in peril. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BESTAIN
To stain.
BESTAR
To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or aswith, stars; to bestud. "Bestarred with anemones." W. Black.
BESTIAL
A domestic animal; also collectively, cattle; as, other kindsof bestial. [Scot.]
BESTIALIZE
To make bestial, or like a beast; to degrade; to brutalize.The process of bestializing humanity. Hare.
BESTIALLY
In a bestial manner.
BESTIARY
A treatise on beasts; esp., one of the moralizing orallegorical beast tales written in the Middle Ages.
BESTICK
To stick over, as with sharp points pressed in; to mark byinfixing points or spots here and there; to pierce.Truth shall retire Bestuck with slanderous darts. Milton.
BESTILL
To make still.
BESTIR
To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life andvigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun.You have so bestirred your valor. Shak.Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake. Milton.
BESTORM
To storm. Young.
BESTOWAL
The act of bestowing; disposal.
BESTOWER
One that bestows.
BESTRADDLE
To bestride.
BESTRAUGHT
Out of one's senses; distracted; mad. [Obs.] Shak.
BESTREAK
To streak.
BESTREW
To strew or scatter over; to besprinkle. [Spelt also bestrow.]Milton.
BESTRODE
imp. & p. p. of Bestride.
BESTROWN
p. p. of Bestrew.
BESTUCK
imp. & p. p. Bestick.
BESTUD
To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; tostud; as, to bestud with stars. Milton.
BESWIKE
To lure; to cheat. [Obs.] Gower.
BET
That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties,upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act ofgiving such a pledge; a wager. "Having made his bets." Goldsmith.
BETA
The second letter of the Greek alphabet, B, b. See B, and cf.etymology of Alphabet. Beta (B, b) is used variously for classifying,as:(a) (Astron.) To designate some bright star, usually the secondbrightest, of a constellation, as, b Aurigรฆ.(b) (Chem.) To distinguish one of two or more isomers; also, toindicate the position of substituting atoms or groups in certaincompounds; as, b-naphthol. With acids, it commonly indicates that thesubstituent is in union with the carbon atom next to that to whichthe carboxyl group is attached.
BETA RAYS
Penetrating rays readily deflected by a magnetic or electricfield, emitted by radioactive substances, as radium. They consist ofnegatively charged particles or electrons, apparently the same inkind as those of the cathode rays, but having much higher velocities(about 35,000 to 180,000 miles per second).
BETAINE
A nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and alsooccurring naturally in beetroot molasses and its residues, from whichit is extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- called alsolycine and oxyneurine. It has a sweetish taste.
BETAUGHT
Delivered; committed in trust. [Obs.]
BETE
To better; to mend. See Beete. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BETE NOIRE
Something especially hated or dreaded; a bugbear.
BETEELA
An East India muslin, formerly used for cravats, veils, etc.[Obs.]
BETEL
A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which arechewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by theinhabitants of the East Indies. I is a woody climber with ovatemanynerved leaves.
BETEL NUT
The nutlike seed of the areca palm, chewed in the East withbetel leaves (whence its name) and shell lime.
BETELGUESE
A bright star of the first magnitude, near one shoulder ofOrion. [Written also Betelgeux and Betelgeuse.]
BETHABARA WOOD
A highly elastic wood, used for fishing rods, etc. The tree isunknown, but it is thought to be East Indian.
BETHINK
To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection,reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generallyfollowed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before thesubject of thought.I have bethought me of another fault. Shak.The rest . . . may . . . bethink themselves, and recover. Milton.We bethink a means to break it off. Shak.
BETHLEHEM
In the Ethiopic church, a small building attached to a churchedifice, in which the bread for the eucharist is made. Audsley.
BETHOUGHT
imp. & p. p. of Bethink.
BETHRALL
To reduce to thralldom; to inthrall. [Obs.] Spenser.
BETHUMB
To handle; to wear or soil by handling; as books. Poe.
BETHUMP
To beat or thump soundly. Shak.
BETIDE
To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide thewanderer.What will betide the few Milton.
BETITLE
To furnish with a title or titles; to entitle. [Obs.] Carlyle.
BETON
The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after theFrench fashion.
BETONGUE
To attack with the tongue; to abuse; to insult.
BETONY
A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.).
BETOOK
of Betake.
BETORN
Torn in pieces; tattered.
BETOSS
To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss. "Mybetossed soul." Shak.
BETRAYAL
The act or the result of betraying.
BETRAYER
One who, or that which, betrays.
BETRAYMENT
Betrayal. [R.] Udall.
BETRIM
To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim.Shak.
BETROTHAL
The act of betrothing, or the fact of being betrothed; a mutualpromise, engagement, or contract for a future marriage between thepersons betrothed; betrothment; affiance. "The feast of betrothal."Longfellow.
BETROTHMENT
The act of betrothing, or the state of being betrothed;betrothal.
BETRUST
To trust or intrust. [Obs.]
BETRUSTMENT
The act of intrusting, or the thing intrusted. [Obs.] Chipman.
BETSO
A small brass Venetian coin. [Obs.]
BETTER
To become better; to improve. Carlyle.
BETTERMENT
An improvement of an estate which renders it better than mererepairing would do; -- generally used in the plural. [U. S.] Bouvier.
BETTERMOST
Best. [R.] "The bettermost classes." Brougham.
BETTONG
A small, leaping Australian marsupial of the genus Bettongia;the jerboa kangaroo.
BETTOR
One who bets; a better. Addison.
BETTY
A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open. [Written alsobettee.]The powerful betty, or the artful picklock. Arbuthnot.
BETULIN
A substance of a resinous nature, obtained from the outer barkof the common European birch (Betula alba), or from the tar preparedtherefrom; -- called also birch camphor. Watts.
BETUMBLE
To throw into disorder; to tumble. [R.]From her betumbled couch she starteth. Shak.
BETUTOR
To tutor; to instruct. Coleridge.
BETWEEN
Intermediate time or space; interval. [Poetic & R.] Shak.
BEURRE
A beurrรฉ (or buttery) pear, one with the meas, Beurrรฉ d'Anjou;Beurrรฉ Clairgeau.
BEVEL
To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of.
BEVEL GEAR
A kind of gear in which the two wheels working together lie indifferent planes, and have their teeth cut at right angles to thesurfaces of two cones whose apices coincide with the point where theaxes of the wheels would meet.
BEVELMENT
The replacement of an edge by two similar planes, equallyinclined to the including faces or adjacent planes.
BEVER
A light repast between meals; a lunch. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
BEVILE
A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel. Encyc.Brit.
BEWAIL
To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wailover.Hath widowed and unchilded many a one, Which to this hour bewail theinjury. Shak.
BEWAILABLE
Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable.
BEWAILER
One who bewails or laments.
BEWAILING
Wailing over; lamenting.-- Be*wail"ing*ly, adv.
BEWAILMENT
The act of bewailing.
BEWAKE
To keep watch over; to keep awake. [Obs.] Gower.
BEWARE
To avoid; to take care of; to have a care for. [Obs.] "Priest,beware your beard." Shak.To wish them beware the son. Milton.
BEWASH
To drench or souse with water. "Let the maids bewash the men."Herrick.
BEWEEP
To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears. "His timelessdeath beweeping." Drayton.
BEWET
To wet or moisten. Gay.
BEWIG
To cover (the head) with a wig. Hawthorne.
BEWILDER
To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plainpath; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confusegreatly.Lost and bewildered in the fruitless search. Addison.
BEWILDERED
Greatly perplexed; as, a bewildered mind.
BEWILDEREDNESS
The state of being bewildered; bewilderment. [R.]
BEWILDERING
Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewilderingdifficulties.-- Be*wil"der*ing*ly, adv.
BEWINTER
To make wintry. [Obs.]
BEWIT
A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to ahawk's legs.
BEWITCHEDNESS
The state of being bewitched. Gauden.
BEWITCHER
One who bewitches.
BEWITCHERY
The power of bewitching or fascinating; bewitchment; charm;fascination.There is a certain bewitchery or fascination in words. South.
BEWITCHING
Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating;charming.-- Be*witch"ing*ly, adv.-- Be*witch"ing*ness, n.
BEWRAP
To wrap up; to cover. Fairfax.
BEWRAY
To soil. See Beray.
BEWRAYER
One who, or that which, bewrays; a revealer. [Obs. or Archaic]Addison.
BEWRAYMENT
Betrayal. [R.]
BEWRECK
To wreck. [Obs.]
BEWREKE
To wreak; to avenge. [Obs.] Ld. Berners.
BEWROUGHT
Embroidered. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
BEY
A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions;also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey ofTunis.
BEYLIC
The territory ruled by a bey.
BEYOND
Further away; at a distance; yonder.Lo, where beyond he lyeth languishing. Spenser.
BEZ-ANTLER
The second branch of a stag's horn.
BEZANT
A circle in or, i. e., gold, representing the gold coin calledbezant. Burke.
BEZEL
The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object,as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set.
BEZIQUE
A game at cards in which various combinations of cards in thehand, when declared, score points.
BEZOAR
A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certainruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvianllama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and acertain remedy for eruptive, pestilential, or putrid diseases. Hence:Any antidote or panacea.
BEZOARDIC
Pertaining to, or compounded with, bezoar.-- n.
BEZONIAN
A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar.Great men oft die by vile bezonians. Shak.
BEZPOPOVTSY
A Russian sect. See Raskolnik.
BEZZLE
To plunder; to waste in riot. [Obs.]
BHANG
An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves andseed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked inthe East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh.
BHUNDER
An Indian monkey (Macacus Rhesus), protected by the Hindoos assacred. See Rhesus.
BIACID
Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negativeatoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid.
BIACUMINATE
Having points in two directions.
BIANGULAR
Having two angles or corners.
BIANGULOUS
Biangular. [R.]
BIANNUAL
Occurring twice a year; half-yearly; semiannual.
BIANTHERIFEROUS
Having two anthers.
BIARTICULATE
Having, or consisting of, tow joints.
BIAS
In a slanting manner; crosswise; obliquely; diagonally; as, tocut cloth bias.
BIAURICULATE
Having two auricles, as the heart of mammals, birds, andreptiles.
BIB
An arctic fish (Gadus luscus), allied to the cod; -- calledalso pout and whiting pout.
BIBACIOUS
Addicted to drinking.
BIBACITY
The practice or habit of drinking too much; tippling. Blount.
BIBASIC
Having to hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by positive orbasic atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of acids. See Dibasic.
BIBB
A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3.
BIBBER
One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; atippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber.
BIBBLE-BABBLE
Idle talk; babble. Shak.
BIBBS
Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast tp supportthe trestletrees.
BIBCOCK
A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle. Knight.
BIBELOT
A small decorative object without practical utility.
BIBIRINE
See Bebeerine.
BIBITORY
Of or pertaining to drinking or tippling.
BIBLE
A book with an authoritative exposition of some topic,respected by many experts on the field. Bible Society, an associationfor securing the multiplication and wide distribution of the Bible.-- Douay Bible. See Douay Bible.-- Geneva Bible. See under Geneva.
BIBLER
A great drinker; a tippler. [Written also bibbler andbibbeler.]
BIBLICAL
Pertaining to, or derived from, the Bible; as, biblicallearning; biblical authority.
BIBLICALITY
The quality of being biblical; a biblical subject. [R.]
BIBLICALLY
According to the Bible.
BIBLICISM
Learning or literature relating to the Bible. [R.]
BIBLICIST
One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator ofreligious truth by the Scriptures.
BIBLIOGRAPH
Bibliographer.
BIBLIOGRAPHER
One who writes, or is versed in, bibliography.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
A history or description of books and manuscripts, with noticesof the different editions, the times when they were printed, etc.
BIBLIOLATRY
Book worship, esp. of the Bible; -- applied by Roman Catholicdivine Coleridge. F. W. Newman.
BIBLIOLOGICAL
Relating to bibliology.
BIBLIOMANCY
A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages ofScripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerningfuture events.
BIBLIOMANIA
A mania for acquiring books.
BIBLIOMANIAC
One who has a mania for books.-- a.
BIBLIOMANIACAL
Pertaining to a passion for books; relating to a bibliomaniac.
BIBLIOPEGIC
Relating to the binding of books. [R.]
BIBLIOPEGIST
A bookbinder.
BIBLIOPEGISTIC
Pertaining to the art of binding books. [R.] Dibdin.
BIBLIOPEGY
The art of binding books. [R.]
BIBLIOPHILE
A lover of books.
BIBLIOPHILISM
Love of books.
BIBLIOPHILIST
A lover of books.
BIBLIOPHOBIA
A dread of books. [R.]
BIBLIOPOLE
One who sells books.
BIBLIOPOLISM
The trade or business of selling books.
BIBLIOPOLIST
Same as Bibliopole.
BIBLIOPOLISTIC
Of or pertaining to bibliopolism. Dibdin.
BIBLIOTHEC
A librarian.
BIBLIOTHECA
A library.
BIBLIOTHECAL
Belonging to a library. Byrom.
BIBLIOTHECARY
A librarian. [Obs.] Evelin.
BIBLIOTHEKE
A library. [Obs.] Bale.
BIBRACTEATE
Furnished with, or having, two bracts.
BIBULOUSLY
In a bibulous manner; with profuse imbibition or absorption. DeQuincey.
BICALCARATE
Having two spurs, as the wing or leg of a bird.
BICAMERAL
Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislativebranches. Bentham.
BICAPSULAR
Having two capsules; as, a bicapsular pericarp.
BICARBONATE
A carbonate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid isreplaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportionof the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in thenormal carbonates; an acid carbonate; -- sometimes calledsupercarbonate.
BICARINATE
Having two keel-like projections, as the upper palea ofgrasses.
BICAUDAL
Having, or terminating in, two tails.
BICAUDATE
Two-tailed; bicaudal.
BICCHED
Pecked; pitted; notched. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bicched bones, pecked,or notched, bones; dice.
BICENTENARY
Of or pertaining to two hundred, esp. to two hundred years; as,a bicentenary celebration.-- n.
BICENTENNIAL
The two hundredth year or anniversary, or its celebration.
BICEPHALOUS
Having two heads.
BICEPS
A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularlyto a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh.
BICHIR
A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nileand other African rivers. See Brachioganoidei.
BICHLORIDE
A compound consisting of two atoms of chlorine with one or moreatoms of another element; -- called also dichloride. Bichloride ofmercury, mercuric chloride; -- sometimes called corrosive sublimate.
BICHO
See Jigger.
BICHROMATE
A salt containing two parts of chromic acid to one of the otheringredients; as, potassium bichromate; -- called also dichromate.
BICHROMATIZE
To combine or treat with a bichromate, esp. with bichromate ofpotassium; as, bichromatized gelatine.
BICIPITAL
Dividing into two parts at one extremity; having two heads ortwo supports; as, a bicipital tree.
BICIPITOUS
Having two heads; bicipital. "Bicipitous serpents." Sir T.Browne.
BICKER
A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub.[Prov. Eng.]
BICKERER
One who bickers.
BICKERMENT
Contention. [Obs.] Spenser.
BICKERN
An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also,the beak or horn itself.
BICOLLIGATE
Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.
BICONCAVE
Concave on both sides; as, biconcave vertebrรฆ.
BICONJUGATE
Twice paired, as when a petiole forks twice. Gray.
BICONVEX
Convex on both sides; as, a biconvex lens.
BICORPORAL
Having two bodies.
BICORPORATE
Double-bodied, as a lion having one head and two bodies.
BICOSTATE
Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf.
BICRENATE
Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures arethemselves crenate.
BICRESCENTIC
Having the form of a double crescent.
BICRURAL
Having two legs. Hooker.
BICUSPID
One of the two double-pointed teeth which intervene between thecanines (cuspids) and the molars, on each side of each jaw. SeeTooth, n.
BICYANIDE
See Dicyanide.
BICYCLE
A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It hasa saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranksor levers.
BICYCLER
One who rides a bicycle.
BICYCLIC
Relating to bicycles.
BICYCLING
The use of a bicycle; the act or practice of riding a bicycle.
BICYCLISM
The art of riding a bicycle.
BICYCLIST
A bicycler.
BICYCULAR
Relating to bicycling.
BID
imp. & p. p. of Bid.
BIDALE
An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house,and there to contribute in charity for his relief. [Prov. Eng.]
BIDDABLE
Obedient; docile. [Scot.]
BIDDEN
of Bid.
BIDDER
One who bids or offers a price. Burke.
BIDDERY WARE
A kind of metallic ware made in India. The material is acomposition of zinc, tin, and lead, in which ornaments of gold andsilver are inlaid or damascened. [Spelt also bidry, bidree, bedery,beder.]
BIDDING PRAYER
The prayer for the souls of benefactors, said before thesermon.
BIDDY
A name used in calling a hen or chicken. Shak.
BIDENT
An instrument or weapon with two prongs.
BIDENTAL
Having two teeth. Swift.
BIDENTATE
Having two teeth or two toothlike processes; two-toothed.
BIDIGITATE
Having two fingers or fingerlike projections.
BIDING
Residence; habitation. Rowe.
BIELD
A shelter. Same as Beild. [Scot.]
BIELID
See Andromede.
BIENNIAL
Continuing for two years, and then perishing, as plants whichform roots and leaves the first year, and produce fruit the second.
BIENNIALLY
Once in two years.
BIER
A count of forty threads in the warp or chain of woolen cloth.Knight.
BIERBALK
A church road (e. g., a path across fields) for funerals.[Obs.] Homilies.
BIFACIAL
Having the opposite surfaces alike.
BIFARIOUS
Pointing two ways, as leaves that grow only on opposite sidesof a branch; in two vertical rows.
BIFARIOUSLY
In a bifarious manner.
BIFEROUS
Bearing fruit twice a year.
BIFID
Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening witha cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins.
BIFIDATE
See Bifid.
BIFILAR
Two-threaded; involving the use of two threads; as, bifilarsuspension; a bifilar balance. Bifilar micrometer (often called abifilar), an instrument form measuring minute distances or angles bymeans of two very minute threads (usually spider lines), one ofwhich, at least, is movable; -- more commonly called a filarmicrometer.
BIFLABELLATE
Flabellate on both sides.
BIFLAGELLATE
Having two long, narrow, whiplike appendages.
BIFOCAL
Having two foci, as some spectacle lenses.
BIFOLD
Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. Shak.
BIFOLIATE
Having two leaves; two-leaved.
BIFOLIOLATE
Having two leaflets, as some compound leaves.
BIFORATE
Having two perforations.
BIFORINE
An oval sac or cell, found in the leaves of certain plants ofthe order Araceรฆ. It has an opening at each end through whichraphides, generated inside, are discharged.
BIFORKED
Bifurcate.
BIFORM
Having two forms, bodies, or shapes. Croxall.
BIFORMED
Having two forms. Johnson.
BIFORMITY
A double form.
BIFORN
Before. [Obs.]
BIFOROUS
See Biforate.
BIFRONTED
Having two fronts. "Bifronted Janus." Massinger.
BIFURCATE
To divide into two branches.
BIFURCATION
A forking, or division into two branches.
BIFURCOUS
See Bifurcate, a. [R.] Coles.
BIG
Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind."Bear interchanges in local use, now with barley, now with bigg." NewEnglish Dict.
BIG BEND STATE
Tennessee; -- a nickname.
BIG-BELLIED
Having a great belly; as, a big-bellied man or flagon; advancedin pregnancy.
BIG-WIGGED
characterized by pomposity of manner. [Eng.]
BIGA
A two-horse chariot.
BIGAM
A bigamist. [Obs.]
BIGAMIST
One who is guilty of bigamy. Ayliffe.
BIGAMOUS
Guilty of bigamy; involving bigamy; as, a bigamous marriage.
BIGAMY
The offense of marrying one person when already legally marriedto another. Wharton.
BIGEMINATE
Having a forked petiole, and a pair of leaflets at the end ofeach division; biconjugate; twice paired; -- said of a decompoundleaf.
BIGENTIAL
Including two tribes or races of men.
BIGEYE
A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large sizeof the eye.
BIGG
See Big, n. & v.
BIGGEN
To make or become big; to enlarge. [Obs. or Dial.] Steele.
BIGGER
, compar. of Big.
BIGGEST
, superl. of Big.
BIGGIN
A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head.An old woman's biggin for a nightcap. Massinger.
BIGHA
A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre toan acre.
BIGHORN
The Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis or Caprovis montana).
BIGHT
A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin.
BIGLANDULAR
Having two glands, as a plant.
BIGLY
In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently.He brawleth bigly. Robynson (More's Utopia. )
BIGNESS
The state or quality of being big; largeness; size; bulk.
BIGNONIA
A large genus of American, mostly tropical, climbing shrubs,having compound leaves and showy somewhat tubular flowers. B.capreolata is the cross vine of the Southern United States. Thetrumpet creeper was formerly considered to be of this genus.
BIGNONIACEOUS
Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe trumpet flower is an example.
BIGOT
Bigoted. [Obs.]In a country more bigot than ours. Dryden.
BIGOTED
Obstinately and blindly attached to some creed, opinionpractice, or ritual; unreasonably devoted to a system or party, andilliberal toward the opinions of others. "Bigoted to strife." Byron.
BIGOTEDLY
In the manner of a bigot.
BIGWIG
A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society. [Jocose]In our youth we have heard him spoken of by the bigwigs with extremecondescension. Dickens.
BIHYDROGURET
A compound of two atoms of hydrogen with some other substance.[Obs.]
BIJOU
A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and ofelegant workmanship.
BIJOUTRY
Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc.
BIJUGATE
Having two pairs, as of leaflets.
BIJUGOUS
Bijugate.
BIKE
A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm. [Scot.] Sir W.Scott.
BIKH
The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted fromAconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself.
BILABIATE
Having two lips, as the corols of certain flowers.
BILACINIATE
Doubly fringed.
BILALO
A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay ofManila.
BILAND
A byland. [Obs.] Holland.
BILANDER
A small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting,or for use in canals, as in Holland.Why choose we, then, like bilanders to creep Along the coast, andland in view to keep Dryden.
BILATERAL
Of or pertaining to the two sides of a central area or organ,or of a central axis; as, bilateral symmetry in animals, where thereis a similarity of parts on the right and left sides of the body.
BILATERALITY
State of being bilateral.
BILBERRY
The European whortleberry (Vaccinium myrtillus); also, itsedible bluish black fruit.There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry. Shak.
BILBO
A long bar or bolt of iron with sliding shackles, and a lock atthe end, to confine the feet of prisoners or offenders, esp. on boardof ships.Methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Shak.
BILBOQUET
The toy called cup and ball.
BILCOCK
The European water rail.
BILDSTEIN
Same as Agalmatolite.
BILE
A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline inreaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, whereit aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents arethe bile salts, and coloring matters.
BILECTION
That portion of a group of moldings which projects beyond thegeneral surface of a panel; a bolection.
BILESTONE
A gallstone, or biliary calculus. See Biliary. E. Darwin.
BILGE
That part of a ship's hull or bottom which is broadest and mostnearly flat, and on which she would rest if aground.
BILGY
Having the smell of bilge water.
BILIARY
Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliaryacids; biliary ducts. Biliary calculus (Med.), a gallstone, or aconcretion formed in the gall bladder or its duct.
BILIATION
The production and excretion of bile.
BILIFEROUS
Generating bile.
BILIFUSCIN
A brownish green pigment found in human gallstones and in oldbile. It is a derivative of bilirubin.
BILIMENT
A woman's ornament; habiliment. [Obs.]
BILIN
A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtainedfrom bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of amixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids.
BILINEAR
Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinearcoรถrdinates.
BILINGUAL
Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in twolanguages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary.-- Bi*lin"gual*ly, adv.
BILINGUALISM
Quality of being bilingual.The bilingualism of King's English. Earle.
BILINGUAR
See Bilingual.
BILINGUIST
One versed in two languages.
BILINGUOUS
Having two tongues, or speaking two languages. [Obs.]
BILIOUSNESS
The state of being bilious.
BILIPRASIN
A dark green pigment found in small quantity in humangallstones.
BILIRUBIN
A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in thatfrom carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.
BILITERAL
Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskritverb. Sir W. Jones.-- n.
BILITERALISM
The property or state of being biliteral.
BILIVERDIN
A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin byoxidation.
BILK
To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, bynonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slipto; as, to bilk a creditor. Thackeray.
BILL
A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal.Milton.
BILL BOOK
A book in which a person keeps an account of his notes, bills,bills of exchange, etc., thus showing all that he issues andreceives.
BILL BROKER
One who negotiates the discount of bills.
BILLABONG
In Australia, a blind channel leading out from a river; --sometimes called an anabranch. This is the sense of the word as usedin the Public Works Department; but the term has also been locallyapplied to mere back-waters forming stagnant pools and to certainwater channels arising from a source.
BILLAGE
and v. t. & i. Same as Bilge.
BILLARD
An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish. [Written alsobillet and billit.]
BILLBOARD
A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed onthe bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of theanchor to rest on. Totten.
BILLED
Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used incomposition; as, broad-billed.
BILLET
To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence: Toquarter, or place in lodgings, as soldiers in private houses.Billeted in so antiquated a mansion. W. Irving.
BILLET-DOUX
A love letter or note.A lover chanting out a billet-doux. Spectator.
BILLETHEAD
A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat,around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off.
BILLFISH
A name applied to several distinct fishes: (a) The garfish(Tylosurus, or Belone, longirostris) and allied species. (b) Thesaury, a slender fish of the Atlantic coast (Scomberesox saurus). (c)The Tetrapturus albidus, a large oceanic species related to theswordfish; the spearfish. (d) The American fresh-water garpike(Lepidosteus osseus).
BILLHEAD
A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills orrendering accounts.
BILLHOOK
A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruninghedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called ahand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter.
BILLIARD
Of or pertaining to the game of billiards. "Smooth as is abilliard ball." B. Jonson.
BILLIARDS
A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangulartable, bounded by elastic cushions. The player seeks to impel hisball with his cue so that it shall either strike (carom upon) twoother balls, or drive another ball into one of the pockets with whichthe table sometimes is furnished.
BILLING
Caressing; kissing.
BILLION
According to the French and American method of numeration, athousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method,a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. See Numeration.
BILLMAN
One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax. "A billmanof the guard." Savile.
BILLON
An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copperor other base metal, used in coinage.
BILLOT
Bullion in the bar or mass.
BILLOW
To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate."The billowing snow." Prior.
BILLOWY
Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into largewaves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows.And whitening down the many-tinctured stream, Descends the billowyfoam. Thomson.
BILLY
A slubbing or roving machine.
BILLY GOAT
A male goat. [Colloq.]
BILLYBOY
A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel. [Eng.]
BILOBATE
Divided into two lobes or segments.
BILOBED
Bilobate.
BILOCATION
Double location; the state or power of being in two places atthe same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to some of thesaints. Tylor.
BILOCULAR
Divided into two cells or compartments; as, a bilocularpericarp. Gray.
BILSTED
See Sweet gum.
BILTONG
Lean meat cut into strips and sun-dried. H. R. Haggard.
BIMACULATE
Having, or marked with, two spots.
BIMANA
Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man asa special order of Mammalia.
BIMANOUS
Having two hands; two-handed.
BIMARGINATE
Having a double margin, as certain shells.
BIMASTISM
The condition of having two mammรฆ or teats.
BIMEDIAL
Applied to a line which is the sum of two lines commensurableonly in power (as the side and diagonal of a square).
BIMEMBRAL
Having two members; as, a bimembral sentence. J. W. Gibbs.
BIMENSAL
See Bimonthly, a. [Obs. or R.]
BIMESTRIAL
Continuing two months. [R.]
BIMETALLIC
Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (asgold and silver) for a system of coins or currency.
BIMETALLISM
The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in thecurrency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition tomonometallism.
BIMETALLIST
An advocate of bimetallism.
BIMOLECULAR
Pertaining to, or formed from, two molecules; as, a bimolecularreaction (a reaction between two molecules).
BIMONTHLY
Occurring, done, or coming, once in two months; as, bimonthlyvisits; bimonthly publications.-- n.
BIMUSCULAR
Having two adductor muscles, as a bivalve mollusk.
BIN
A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle forany commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin.
BINAL
Twofold; double. [R.] "Binal revenge, all this." Ford.
BINARSENIATE
A salt having two equivalents of arsenic acid to one of thebase. Graham.
BINARY
Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterizedby two (things). Binary arithmetic, that in which numbers areexpressed according to the binary scale, or in which two figuresonly, 0 and 1, are used, in lieu of ten; the cipher multiplyingeverything by two, as in common arithmetic by ten. Thus, 1 is one; 10is two; 11 is three; 100 is four, etc. Davies & Peck.-- Binary compound (Chem.), a compound of two elements, or of anelement and a compound performing the function of an element, or oftwo compounds performing the function of elements.-- Binary logarithms, a system of logarithms devised by Euler forfacilitating musical calculations, in which 1 is logarithm of 2,instead of 10, as in the common logarithms, and the modulus 1.442695instead of .43429448.-- Binary measure (Mus.), measure divisible by two or four; commontime.-- Binary nomenclature (Nat. Hist.), nomenclature in which the namesdesignate both genus and species.-- Binary scale (Arith.), a uniform scale of notation whose ratio istwo.-- Binary star (Astron.), a double star whose members have arevolution round their common center of gravity.-- Binary theory (Chem.), the theory that all chemical compoundsconsist of two constituents of opposite and unlike qualities.
BINATE
Double; growing in pairs or couples. Gray.
BINAURAL
Of or pertaining to, or used by, both ears.
BINBASHI
A major in the Turkish army.
BIND
Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron. Kirwan.
BINDERY
A place where books, or other articles, are bound; abookbinder's establishment.
BINDHEIMITE
An amorphous antimonate of lead, produced from the alterationof other ores, as from jamesonite.
BINDING
That binds; obligatory. Binding beam (Arch.), the main timberin double flooring.-- Binding joist (Arch.), the secondary timber in double-framedflooring.
BINDING POST
A metallic post attached to electrical apparatus forconvenience in making connections.
BINDING SCREW
A set screw used to bind parts together, esp. one for making aconnection in an electrical circuit.
BINDINGLY
So as to bind.
BINDINGNESS
The condition or property of being binding; obligatory quality.Coleridge.
BINDWEED
A plant of the genus Convolvulus; as, greater bindweed (C.Sepium); lesser bindweed (C. arvensis); the white, the blue, theSyrian, bindweed. The black bryony, or Tamus, is called blackbindweed, and the Smilax aspera, rough bindweed.The fragile bindweed bells and bryony rings. Tennyson.
BINE
The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbingplant.
BINERVATE
Two-nerved; -- applied to leaves which have two longitudinalribs or nerves.
BING
A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood. "Potato bings." Burns. "Abing of corn." Surrey. [Obs. or Dial. Eng. & Scot.]
BINIODIDE
Same as Diiodide.
BINK
A bench. [North of Eng. & Scot.]
BINNACLE
A case or box placed near the helmsman, containing the compassof a ship, and a light to show it at night. Totten.
BINNY
A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile,and much esteemed for food.
BINOCLE
A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as toenable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double-barreled field glass or an opera glass.
BINOCULAR
A binocular glass, whether opera glass, telescope, ormicroscope.
BINOCULARLY
In a binocular manner.
BINOCULATE
Having two eyes.
BINOMIAL
An expression consisting of two terms connected by the signplus (+) or minus (-); as, a+b, or 7-3.
BINOMINAL
Of or pertaining to two names; binomial.
BINOMINOUS
Binominal. [Obs.]
BINOTONOUS
Consisting of two notes; as, a binotonous cry.
BINOUS
Same as Binate.
BINOXALATE
A salt having two equivalents of oxalic acid to one of thebase; an acid oxalate.
BINOXIDE
Same as Dioxide.
BINTURONG
A small Asiatic civet of the genus Arctilis.
BINUCLEOLATE
Having two nucleoli.
BIOBLAST
Same as Bioplast.
BIOCELLATE
Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc.
BIOCHEMISTRY
The chemistry of living organisms; the chemistry of theprocesses incidental to, and characteristic of, life.
BIODYNAMICS
The doctrine of vital forces or energy.
BIOGEN
Bioplasm.
BIOGENETIC
Pertaining to biogenesis.
BIOGENIST
A believer in the theory of biogenesis.
BIOGEOGRAPHY
The branch of biology which deals with the geographicaldistribution of animals and plants. It includes both zoรถgeography andphytogeography. -- Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic (#), a. --Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
BIOGNOSIS
The investigation of life.
BIOGRAPH
An animated picture machine for screen projection; acinematograph.
BIOGRAPHER
One who writes an account or history of the life of aparticular person; a writer of lives, as Plutarch.
BIOGRAPHIZE
To write a history of the life of. Southey.
BIOGRAPHY
Of or relating to biology.-- Bi`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
BIOLOGIST
A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology.
BIOLOGY
The science of life; that branch of knowledge which treats ofliving matter as distinct from matter which is not living; the studyof living tissue. It has to do with the origin, structure,development, function, and distribution of animals and plants.
BIOLYSIS
The destruction of life.
BIOLYTIC
Relating to the destruction of life.
BIOMAGNETIC
Relating to biomagnetism.
BIOMAGNETISM
Animal magnetism.
BIOMETRY
Measurement of life; calculation of the probable duration ofhuman life.
BION
The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness andindependence of function, in distinction from the morphologicalindividual or morphon.
BIONOMY
Physiology. [R.] Dunglison.
BIOPHOTOPHONE
An instrument combining a cinematograph and a phonograph sothat the moving figures on the screen are accompanied by theappropriate sounds.
BIOPLASM
A name suggested by Dr. Beale for the germinal matter supposedto be essential to the functions of all living beings; the materialthrough which every form of life manifests itself; unalteredprotoplasm.
BIOPLASMIC
Pertaining to, or consisting of, bioplasm.
BIOPLAST
A tiny mass of bioplasm, in itself a living unit and havingformative power, as a living white blood corpuscle; bioblast.
BIOPLASTIC
Bioplasmic.
BIORGAN
A physiological organ; a living organ; an organ endowed withfunction; -- distinguished from idorgan.
BIOSCOPE
A view of life; that which gives such a view.
BIOSTATICS
The physical phenomena of organized bodies, in opposition totheir organic or vital phenomena.
BIOSTATISTICS
Vital statistics.
BIOTAXY
The classification of living organisms according to theirstructural character; taxonomy.
BIOTIC
Relating to life; as, the biotic principle.
BIOTITE
Mica containing iron and magnesia, generally of a black or darkgreen color; -- a common constituent of crystalline rocks. See Mica.
BIPALMATE
Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated.
BIPARIETAL
Of or pertaining to the diameter of the cranium, from oneparietal fossa to the other.
BIPAROUS
Bringing forth two at a birth.
BIPARTIBLE
Capable of being divided into two parts.
BIPARTIENT
Dividing into two parts.-- n.
BIPARTILE
Divisible into two parts.
BIPARTITION
The act of dividing into two parts, or of making twocorrespondent parts, or the state of being so divided.
BIPED
A two-footed animal, as man.
BIPELTATE
Having a shell or covering like a double shield.
BIPENNIS
An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle.
BIPETALOUS
Having two petals.
BIPINNARIA
The larva of certain starfishes as developed in the free-swimming stage.
BIPINNATIFID
Doubly pinnatifid.
BIPLANE
An aรซroplane with two main supporting surfaces one above theother.
BIPLICATE
Twice folded together. Henslow.
BIPLICITY
The state of being twice folded; reduplication. [R.] Bailey.
BIPOLAR
Doubly polar; having two poles; as, a bipolar cell orcorpuscle.
BIPOLARITY
Bipolar quality.
BIPRISM
A prism whose refracting angle is very nearly 180 degrees.
BIPUNCTATE
Having two punctures, or spots.
BIPUNCTUAL
Having two points.
BIPUPILLATE
Having an eyelike spot on the wing, with two dots within it ofa different color, as in some butterflies.
BIPYRAMIDAL
Consisting of two pyramids placed base to base; having apyramid at each of the extremities of a prism, as in quartz crystals.
BIQUADRATE
The fourth power, or the square of the square. Thus 4x4=16, thesquare of 4, and 16x16=256, the biquadrate of 4.
BIQUADRATIC
Of or pertaining to the biquadrate, or fourth power.Biquadratic equation (Alg.), an equation of the fourth degree, or anequation in some term of which the unknown quantity is raised to thefourth power.-- Biquadratic root of a number, the square root of the square rootof that number. Thus the square root of 81 is 9, and the square rootof 9 is 3, which is the biquadratic root of 81. Hutton.
BIQUINTILE
An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each otherby twice the fifth part of a great circle -- that is, twice 72degrees.
BIRAMOUS
Having, or consisting of, two branches.
BIRCH
Of or pertaining to the birch; birchen.
BIRCHEN
Of or relating to birch.He passed where Newark's stately tower Looks out from Yarrow'sbirchen bower. Sir W. Scott.
BIRD
A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. SeeAves.
BIRD CHERRY
A shrub (Prunus Padus ) found in Northern and Central Europe.It bears small black cherries.
BIRD OF PARADISE
The name of several very beautiful birds of the genus Paradiseaand allied genera, inhabiting New Guinea and the adjacent islands.The males have brilliant colors, elegant plumes, and often remarkabletail feathers.
BIRD PEPPER
A species of capsicum (Capsicum baccatum), whose small,conical, coral-red fruit is among the most piquant of all redpeppers.
BIRD-EYED
Quick-sighted; catching a glance as one goes.
BIRD-WITTED
Flighty; passing rapidly from one subject to another; nothaving the faculty of attention. Bacon.
BIRDBOLT
A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them.Hence: Anything which smites without penetrating. Shak.
BIRDCATCHER
One whose employment it is to catch birds; a fowler.
BIRDCATCHING
The art, act, or occupation or catching birds or wild fowls.
BIRDER
A birdcatcher.
BIRDIE
A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name. Tennyson.
BIRDIKIN
A young bird. Thackeray.
BIRDING
Birdcatching or fowling. Shak. Birding piece, a fowling piece.Shak.
BIRDLET
A little bird; a nestling.
BIRDLIKE
Resembling a bird.
BIRDLIME
An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of themiddle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it.When a twig is smeared with this substance it will hold small birdswhich may light upon it. Hence: Anything which insnares.Not birdlime or Idean pitch produce A more tenacious mass of clammyjuice. Dryden.
BIRDLING
A little bird; a nestling.
BIRDMAN
A fowler or birdcatcher.
BIRDSEED
Canary seed, hemp, millet or other small seeds used for feedingcaged birds.
BIRDWOMAN
An airwoman; an aviatress. [Colloq.]
BIRECTANGULAR
Containing or having two right angles; as, a birectangularspherical triangle.
BIREME
An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars.
BIRETTA
Same as Berretta.
BIRGANDER
See Bergander.
BIRK
A birch tree. [Prov. Eng.] "The silver birk." Tennyson.
BIRKEN
To whip with a birch or rod. [Obs.]
BIRKIE
A lively or mettlesome fellow. [Jocular, Scot.] Burns.
BIRL
To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
BIRLAW
A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic orlocal law or by-law. [Written also byrlaw, birlie, birley.]
BIRR
To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels inmotion.
BIRRUS
A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in theMiddle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders orover the head.
BIRSE
A bristle or bristles. [Scot.]
BIRT
A fish of the turbot kind; the brill. [Written also burt, bret,or brut.] [Prov. Eng.]
BIRTH
See Berth. [Obs.] De Foe.
BIRTHDAY
Of or pertaining to the day of birth, or its anniversary; as,birthday gifts or festivities.
BIRTHDOM
The land of one's birth; one's inheritance. [R.] Shak.
BIRTHING
Anything added to raise the sides of a ship. Bailey.
BIRTHLESS
Of mean extraction. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
BIRTHMARK
Some peculiar mark or blemish on the body at birth.Most part of this noble lineage carried upon their body for a naturalbirthmark, . . . a snake. Sir T. North.
BIRTHNIGHT
The night in which a person is born; the anniversary of thatnight in succeeding years.The angelic song in Bethlehem field, On thy birthnight, that sungthee Savior born. Milton.
BIRTHPLACE
The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place oforigin or birth, in its more general sense. "The birthplace ofvalor." Burns.
BIRTHRIGHT
Any right, privilege, or possession to which a person isentitled by birth, such as an estate descendible by law to an heir,or civil liberty under a free constitution; esp. the rights orinheritance of the first born.Lest there be any . . . profane person, as Esau, who for one morselof meat sold his birthright. Heb. xii. 16.
BIRTHROOT
An herbaceous plant (Trillium erectum), and its astringentrootstock, which is said to have medicinal properties.
BIRTHWORT
A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to havemedicinal properties.
BIS
Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be,repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts.
BISA ANTELOPE
See Oryx.
BISACCATE
Having two little bags, sacs, or pouches.
BISCAYAN
Of or pertaining to Biscay in Spain.-- n.
BISCOTIN
A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, and eggs; a sweetbiscuit.
BISCUIT
A species of white, unglazed porcelain, in which vases,figures, and groups are formed in miniature. Meat biscuit, analimentary preparation consisting of matters extracted from meat byboiling, or of meat ground fine and combined with flour, so as toform biscuits.
BISCUTATE
Resembling two bucklers placed side by side.
BISE
A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of theMediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as themistral.
BISECT
To divide into two equal parts.
BISECTION
Division into two parts, esp. two equal parts.
BISECTOR
One who, or that which, bisects; esp. (Geom.) a straight linewhich bisects an angle.
BISECTRIX
The line bisecting the angle between the optic axes of abiaxial crystal.
BISEGMENT
One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude.
BISEPTATE
With two partitions or septa. Gray.
BISERRATE
Doubly serrate, or having the serratures serrate, as in someleaves.
BISEXOUS
Bisexual. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
BISEXUAL
Of both sexes; hermaphrodite; as a flower with stamens andpistil, or an animal having ovaries and testes.
BISEXUOUS
Bisexual.
BISEYE
of Besee. [Obs.] Chaucer. Evil biseye, ill looking. [Obs.]
BISH
Same as Bikh.
BISHOP
To admit into the church by confirmation; to confirm; hence, toreceive formally to favor.
BISHOP SLEEVE
A wide sleeve, once worn by women.
BISHOP-STOOL
A bishop's seat or see.
BISHOPDOM
Jurisdiction of a bishop; episcopate. "Divine right ofbishopdom." Milton.
BISHOPLIKE
Resembling a bishop; belonging to a bishop. Fulke.
BISHOPLY
Bishoplike; episcopal. [Obs.]
BISHOPRIC
A plant of the genus Mitella; miterwort. Longfellow.
BISIE
To busy; to employ. [Obs.]
BISILICATE
A salt of metasilicic acid; -- so called because the ratio ofthe oxygen of the silica to the oxygen of the base is as two to one.The bisilicates include many of the most common and importantminerals.
BISK
Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.King.
BISMER
The fifteen-spined (Gasterosteus spinachia).
BISMILLAH
An adjuration or exclamation common among the Mohammedans.[Written also Bizmillah.]
BISMITE
Bismuth trioxide, or bismuth ocher.
BISMUTH
One of the elements; a metal of a reddish white color,crystallizing in rhombohedrons. It is somewhat harder than lead, andrather brittle; masses show broad cleavage surfaces when brokenacross. It melts at 507ยบ Fahr., being easily fused in the flame of acandle. It is found in a native state, and as a constituent of someminerals. Specific gravity 9.8. Atomic weight 207.5. Symbol Bi.
BISMUTHAL
Containing bismuth.
BISMUTHIC
Of or pertaining to bismuth; containing bismuth, when thiselement has its higher valence; as, bismuthic oxide.
BISMUTHIFEROUS
Containing bismuth.
BISMUTHOUS
Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lowervalence.
BISMUTHYL
Hydrous carbonate of bismuth, an earthy mineral of a dull whiteor yellowish color. [Written also bismuthite.]
BISPINOSE
Having two spines.
BISQUE
Unglazed white porcelain.
BISSELL TRUCK
A truck for railroad rolling stock, consisting of two ordinaryaxle boxes sliding in guides attached to a triangular frame; --called also pony truck.
BISSEXTILE
Leap year; every fourth year, in which a day is added to themonth of February on account of the excess of the tropical year (365d. 5 h. 48 m. 46 s.) above 365 days. But one day added every fouryears is equivalent to six hours each year, which is 11 m. 14 s. morethan the excess of the real year. Hence, it is necessary to suppressthe bissextile day at the end of every century which is not divisibleby 400, while it is retained at the end of those which are divisibleby 400.
BISSON
Purblind; blinding. [Obs.] "Bisson rheum." Shak.
BISTIPULED
Having two stipules.
BISTORT
An herbaceous plant of the genus Polygonum, section Bistorta;snakeweed; adderwort. Its root is used in medicine as an astringent.
BISTOURY
A surgical instrument consisting of a slender knife, eitherstraight or curved, generally used by introducing it beneath the partto be divided, and cutting towards the surface.
BISTRE
See Bister.
BISULCATE
Cloven; said of a foot or hoof.
BISULCOUS
Bisulcate. Sir T. Browne.
BISULPHATE
A sulphate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid isreplaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportionof the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in thenormal sulphates; an acid sulphate.
BISULPHIDE
A sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; adisulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently calledbisulphuret.
BISULPHITE
A salt of sulphurous acid in which the base replaces but halfthe hydrogen of the acid; an acid sulphite.
BISULPHURET
See Bisulphide.
BIT
To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of.
BITAKE
To commend; to commit. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BITANGENT
Possessing the property of touching at two points.-- n.
BITARTRATE
A salt of tartaric acid in which the base replaces but half theacid hydrogen; an acid tartrate, as cream of tartar.
BITE
A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion ofthe frisket, or something else, intervening between the type andpaper.
BITERNATE
Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets.-- Bi*ter"nate*ly, adv. Gray.
BITHEISM
Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism.
BITING
That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic. "A bitingaffliction." "A biting jest." Shak.
BITING IN
The process of corroding or eating into metallic plates, bymeans of an acid. See Etch. G. Francis.
BITINGLY
In a biting manner.
BITLESS
Not having a bit or bridle.
BITSTOCK
A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace.
BITT
See Bitts.
BITTACLE
A binnacle. [Obs.]
BITTEN
of Bite.
BITTER
AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts. Bitter end, thatpart of a cable which is abaft the bitts, and so within board, whenthe ship rides at anchor.
BITTER SPAR
A common name of dolomite; -- so called because it containsmagnesia, the soluble salts of which are bitter. See Dolomite.
BITTERBUMP
the butterbump or bittern.
BITTERFUL
Full of bitterness. [Obs.]
BITTERING
A bitter compound used in adulterating beer; bittern.
BITTERISH
Somewhat bitter. Goldsmith.
BITTERLING
A roachlike European fish (Rhodima amarus).
BITTERLY
In a bitter manner.
BITTERN
A wading bird of the genus Botaurus, allied to the herons, ofvarious species.
BITTERNUT
The swamp hickory (Carya amara). Its thin-shelled nuts arebitter.
BITTERROOT
A plant (Lewisia rediviva) allied to the purslane, but withfleshy, farinaceous roots, growing in the mountains of Idaho,Montana, etc. It gives the name to the Bitter Root mountains andriver. The Indians call both the plant and the river Spรฆt'lum.
BITTERS
A liquor, generally spirituous in which a bitter herb, leaf, orroot is steeped.
BITTERSWEET
Sweet and then bitter or bitter and then sweet; esp. sweet witha bitter after taste; hence (Fig.), pleasant but painful.
BITTERWEED
A species of Ambrosia (A. artemisiรฆfolia); Roman worm wood.Gray.
BITTERWOOD
A West Indian tree (Picrรฆna excelsa) from the wood of which thebitter drug Jamaica quassia is obtained.
BITTERWORT
The yellow gentian (Gentiana lutea), which has a very bittertaste.
BITTOCK
A small bit of anything, of indefinite size or quantity; ashort distance. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
BITTS
A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the forepart of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides atanchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belayingbitts), for sustaining the windlass (carrick bitts, winch bitts, orwindlass bitts), to hold the pawls of the windlass (pawl bitts) etc.
BITUME
Bitumen. [Poetic] May.
BITUMED
Smeared with bitumen. [R.] "The hatches caulked and bitumed."Shak.
BITUMEN PROCESS
Any process in which  advantage is taken of the fact thatprepared bitumen is rendered insoluble by exposure to light, as inphotolithography.
BITUMINATE
To treat or impregnate with bitumen; to cement with bitumen."Bituminated walls of Babylon." Feltham.
BITUMINIFEROUS
Producing bitumen. Kirwan.
BITUMINIZATION
The process of bituminizing. Mantell.
BITUMINIZE
To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.
BITUMINOUS
Having the qualities of bitumen; compounded with bitumen;containing bitumen.Near that bituminous lake where Sodom flamed. Milton.Bituminous coal, a kind of coal which yields, when heated, aconsiderable amount of volatile bituminous matter. It burns with ayellow smoky flame.-- Bituminous limestone, a mineral of a brown or black color,emitting an unpleasant smell when rubbed. That of Dalmatia is socharged with bitumen that it may be cut like soap.-- Bituminous shale, an argillaceous shale impregnated with bitumen,often accompanying coal.
BIURET
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formedby heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid.
BIVALENCY
The quality of being bivalent.
BIVALENT
Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms ofhydrogen; dyad.
BIVALVE
A mollusk having a shell consisting of two lateral plates orvalves joined together by an elastic ligament at the hinge, which isusually strengthened by prominences called teeth. The shell is closedby the contraction of two transverse muscles attached to the innersurface, as in the clam, -- or by one, as in the oyster. SeeMollusca.
BIVALVED
Having two valves, as the oyster and some seed pods; bivalve.
BIVALVOUS
Bivalvular.
BIVALVULAR
Having two valves.
BIVAULTED
Having two vaults or arches.
BIVECTOR
A term made up of the two parts
BIVENTRAL
(Anat.) Having two bellies or protuberances; as, a biventral,or digastric, muscle, or the biventral lobe of the cerebellum.
BIVIAL
Of or relating to the bivium.
BIVIOUS
Having, or leading, two ways.Bivious theorems and Janus-faced doctrines. Sir T. Browne.
BIVIUM
One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, indistinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes threeambulacra.
BIWEEKLY
Occurring or appearing once every two weeks; fortnightly.-- n.
BIWREYE
To bewray; to reveal. [Obs.]
BIZANTINE
See Byzantine.
BIZARRE
Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant;grotesque. C. Kingsley.
BIZET
The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, whichprojects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdleand the table. See Brilliant, n.
BLAB
To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; topublish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion. Udall.And yonder a vile physician blabbing The case of his patient.Tennyson.
BLABBER
A tattler; a telltale.
BLACK
Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produceblackness.
BLACK ART
The art practiced by conjurers and witches; necromancy;conjuration; magic.
BLACK DEATH
A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenthcentury.
BLACK FLAGS
An organization composed originally of Chinese rebels that hadbeen driven into Tonkin by the suppression of the Taiping rebellion,but later increased by bands of pirates and adventurers. It took aprominent part in fighting the French during their hostilities withAnam, 1873-85.
BLACK FRIAR
A friar of the Dominican order; -- called also predicant andpreaching friar; in France, Jacobin. Also, sometimes, a Benedictine.
BLACK FRIDAY
Any Friday on which a public disaster has occurred, as: InEngland, December 6, 1745, when the news of the landing of thePretender reached London, or May 11, 1866,  when a financial paniccommenced. In the United States, September 24, 1869, and September18, 1873, on which financial panics began.
BLACK HAMBURG
A sweet and juicy variety of European grape, of a dark purplishblack color, much grown under glass in northern latitudes.
BLACK HAND
A Spanish anarchistic society, many of the members of whichwere imprisoned in 1883.
BLACK HOLE
A dungeon or dark cell in a prison; a military lock-up orguardroom; -- now commonly with allusion to the cell (the Black Hole)in a fort at Calcutta, into which 146 English prisoners were thrustby the nabob Suraja Dowla on the night of June 20, 17656, and inwhich 123 of the prisoners died before morning from lack of air.A discipline of unlimited autocracy, upheld by rods, and ferules, andthe black hole. H. Spencer.
BLACK LEAD
Plumbago; graphite.It leaves a blackish mark somewhat likelead. See Graphite.
BLACK LETTER
The old English or Gothic letter, in which the Early Englishmanuscripts were written, and the first English books were printed.It was conspicuous for its blackness. See Type.
BLACK MONK
A Benedictine monk.
BLACK PUDDING
A kind of sausage made of blood, suet, etc., thickened withmeal.And fat black puddings, -- proper food, For warriors that delight inblood. Hudibras.
BLACK SALTS
Crude potash. De Colange.
BLACK SPANISH
One of an old and well-known Mediterranean breed of domesticfowls with glossy black plumage, blue legs and feet, bright red comband wattles, and white face. They are remarkable as egg layers.
BLACK VOMIT
A copious vomiting of dark-colored matter; or the substance sodischarged; -- one of the most fatal symptoms in yellow fever.
BLACK-A-VISED
Dark-visaged; swart.
BLACK-BROWED
Having black eyebrows. Hence: Gloomy; dismal; threatening;forbidding. Shak. Dryden.
BLACK-EYED
Having black eyes. Dryden.
BLACK-FACED
Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect.
BLACK-HEARTED
Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad.
BLACK-JACK
A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; -- called also false galena. See Blende.
BLACK-MOUTHED
Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous.
BLACKAMOOR
A negro or negress. Shak.
BLACKBAND
An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerablecarbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.
BLACKBERRY
The fruit of several species of bramble (Rubus); also, theplant itself. Rubus fruticosus is the blackberry of England; R.villosus and R. Canadensis are the high blackberry and low blackberryof the United States. There are also other kinds.
BLACKBIRD
In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing birdwith a fin note; the merle. In America the name is given to severalbirds, as the Quiscalus versicolor, or crow blackbird; the Agelรฆusphoeniceus, or red-winged blackbird; the cowbird; the rusty grackle,etc. See Redwing.
BLACKBIRDER
A slave ship; a slaver. [Colloq.]  F. T. Bullen.
BLACKBOARD
A broad board painted black, or any black surface on whichwriting, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be donewith chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools.
BLACKBURNIAN WARBLER
A beautiful warbler of the United States (DendroicaBlackburniรฆ). The male is strongly marked with orange, yellow, andblack on the head and neck, and has an orange-yellow breast.
BLACKCAP
An apple roasted till black, to be served in a dish of boiledcustard.
BLACKCOAT
A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimescalled a redcoat or a bluecoat.
BLACKCOCK
The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); -- so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heathgrouse.
BLACKEN
To grow black or dark.
BLACKENER
One who blackens.
BLACKFEET
A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting thecountry from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but nowmuch reduced in numbers.
BLACKFIN
See Bluefin.
BLACKFISH
A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of severalspecies. The most common is G. melas. Also sometimes applied to otherwhales of larger size.
BLACKFOOT
Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian.-- n.
BLACKGUARD
To revile or abuse in scurrilous language. Southey.
BLACKGUARDISM
The conduct or language of a blackguard; rufflanism.
BLACKGUARDLY
In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive;scurrilous; ruffianly.
BLACKHEAD
The scaup duck.
BLACKHEART
A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin.
BLACKISH
Somewhat black.
BLACKLEAD
To coat or to polish with black lead.
BLACKLIST
To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, orpunishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolventor untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutualprotection; as, to blacklist a workman who has been discharged. SeeBlack list, under Black, a.If you blacklist us, we will boycott you. John Swinton.
BLACKLY
In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly;atrociously. "Deeds so blackly grim and horrid." Feltham.
BLACKMAIL
Black rent, or rent paid in corn, flesh, or the lowest coin, aopposed to "white rent", which paid in silver. To levy blackmail, toextort money by threats, as of injury to one's reputation.
BLACKMAILER
One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by blackmailing.
BLACKMAILING
The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears ofinjury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation.
BLACKMOOR
See Blackamoor.
BLACKNESS
The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousnessor enormity in wickedness.They're darker now than blackness. Donne.
BLACKPOLL
A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata).
BLACKROOT
See Colicroot.
BLACKSALTER
One who,makes crude potash, or black salts.
BLACKSMITH
A fish of the Pacific coast (Chromis, or Heliastes,punctipinnis), of a blackish color.
BLACKTAIL
A fish; the ruff or pope.
BLACKWATER STATE
Nebraska; -- a nickname alluding to the dark color of the waterof its rivers, due to the presence of a black vegetable mold in thesoil.
BLACKWOOD
A name given to several dark-colored timbers. The East Indianblack wood is from the tree Dalbergia latifolia. Balfour.
BLACKWORK
Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction fromthat wrought by whitesmiths. Knight.
BLADDER
A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of somefluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- appliedespecially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal, or whentaken out and inflated with air.
BLADDERWORT
A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, whichusually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. Theseserve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium.
BLADDERY
Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder.
BLADE
The principal rafters of a roof. Weale.
BLADEBONE
The scapula. See Blade, 4.
BLADED
Composed of long and narrow plates, shaped like the blade of aknife.
BLADEFISH
A long, thin, marine fish of Europe (Trichiurus lepturus); theribbon fish.
BLADESMITH
A sword cutler. [Obs.]
BLADY
Consisting of blades. [R.] "Blady grass." Drayton.
BLAE
Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored. [Scot.]
BLAEBERRY
The bilberry. [North of Eng. & Scot.]
BLAGUE
Mendacious boasting; falcefood; humbug.
BLAIN
A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, againstthe windpipe, and stopping the breath.
BLAMABLE
Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible;censurable; blameworthy.-- Blam"a*ble*ness, n.-- Blam"a*bly (, adv.
BLAMELESS
Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; --sometimes followed by of.A bishop then must be blameless. 1 Tim. iii. 2.Blameless still of arts that polish to deprave. Mallet.We will be blameless of this thine oath. Josh. ii. 17.
BLAMELESSLY
In a blameless manner.
BLAMELESSNESS
The quality or state of being blameless; innocence.
BLAMER
One who blames. Wyclif.
BLAMEWORTHY
Deserving blame; culpable; reprehensible.-- Blame"wor`thi*ness, n.
BLANCARD
A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which ispartly blanches before it is woven.
BLANCH
To bleach by excluding the light, as the stalks or leaves ofplants, by earthing them up or tying them together.
BLANCH HOLDING
A mode of tenure by the payment of a small duty in white rent(silver) or otherwise.
BLANCHARD LATHE
A kind of wood-turning lathe for making noncircular andirregular forms, as felloes, gun stocks, lasts, spokes, etc., after agiven pattern. The pattern and work rotate on parallel spindles inthe same direction with the same speed, and the work is shaped by arapidly rotating cutter whose position is varied by the patternacting as a cam upon a follower wheel traversing slowly along thepattern.
BLANCHER
One who, or that which, blanches or whitens; esp., one whoanneals and cleanses money; also, a chemical preparation for thispurpose.
BLANCHIMETER
An instrument for measuring the bleaching power of chloride oflime and potash; a chlorometer. Ure.
BLANCMANGE
A preparation for desserts, etc., made from isinglass, seamoss, cornstarch, or other gelatinous or starchy substance, withmild, usually sweetened and flavored, and shaped in a mold.
BLANCMANGER
A sort of fricassee with white sauce, variously made of capon,fish, etc. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BLANDATION
Flattery. [Obs.]
BLANDILOQUENCE
Mild, flattering speech.
BLANDISE
To blandish any one. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BLANDISHER
One who uses blandishments.
BLANDISHMENT
The act of blandishing; a word or act expressive of affectionor kindness, and tending to win the heart; soft words and artfulcaresses; cajolery; allurement.Cowering low with blandishment. Milton.Attacked by royal smiles, by female blandishments. Macaulay.
BLANDLY
In a bland manner; mildly; suavely.
BLANDNESS
The state or quality of being bland.
BLANK
A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by afurther operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.
BLANKET
A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan tomake it soft and elastic.
BLANKET CLAUSE
A clause, as in a blanket mortgage or policy, that includes agroup or class of things, rather than a number mentioned individuallyand having the burden, loss, or the like, apportioned among them.
BLANKET STITCH
A buttonhole stitch worked wide apart on the edge of material,as blankets, too thick to hem.
BLANKETING
One that covers a group or class of things or propertiesinstead of one or more things mentioned individually, as where amortgage secures various debts as a group, or subjects a group orclass of different pieces of property to one general lien.
BLANKNESS
The state of being blank.
BLANQUETTE
A white fricassee.
BLANQUILLO
A large fish of Florida and the W. Indies (Caulolatiluschrysops). It is red, marked with yellow.
BLARE
To sound loudly and somewhat harshly. "The trumpet blared."Tennyson.
BLARNEY
Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery. [Colloq.] Blarney stone, astone in Blarney castle, Ireland, said to make those who kiss itproficient in the use of blarney.
BLASE
Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency ofenjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up.
BLASPHEME
To utter blasphemy.He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath neverforgiveness. Mark iii. 29.
BLASPHEMER
One who blasphemes.And each blasphemer quite escape the rod, Because the insult's not onman, but God Pope.
BLASPHEMOUS
Speaking or writing blasphemy; uttering or exhibiting anythingimpiously irreverent; profane; as, a blasphemous person; containingblasphemy; as, a blasphemous book; a blasphemous caricature."Blasphemous publications." Porteus.Nor from the Holy One of Heaven Refrained his tongue blasphemous.Milton.
BLASPHEMOUSLY
In a blasphemous manner.
BLAST LAMP
A lamp provided with some arrangement for intensifyingcombustion by means of a blast.
BLAST PIPE
The exhaust pipe of a steam engine, or any pipe deliveringsteam or air, when so constructed as to cause a blast.
BLASTEMA
The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; theprimitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows.
BLASTEMAL
Relating to the blastema; rudimentary.
BLASTEMATIC
Connected with, or proceeding from, the blastema; blastemal.
BLASTER
One who, or that which, blasts or destroys.
BLASTIDE
A small, clear space in the segments of the ovum, the precursorof the nucleus.
BLASTMENT
A sudden stroke or injury produced by some destructive cause.[Obs.] Shak.
BLASTOCARPOUS
Germinating inside the pericarp, as the mangrove. Brande & C.
BLASTOCOELE
The cavity of the blastosphere, or segmentation cavity.
BLASTOCYST
The germinal vesicle.
BLASTODERM
The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo isdeveloped.
BLASTOGENESIS
Multiplication or increase by gemmation or budding.
BLASTOID
One of the Blastoidea.
BLASTOIDEA
One of the divisions of Crinoidea found fossil in paleozoicrocks; pentremites. They are so named on account of their budlikeform.
BLASTOMERE
One of the segments first formed by the division of the ovum.Balfour.
BLASTOPHORE
That portion of the spermatospore which is not converted intospermatoblasts, but carries them.
BLASTOPORE
The pore or opening leading into the cavity of invagination, orarchenteron.
BLASTOSPHERE
The hollow globe or sphere formed by the arrangement of theblastomeres on the periphery of an impregnated ovum.
BLASTOSTYLE
In certain hydroids, an imperfect zooid, whose special functionis to produce medusoid buds. See Hydroidea, and Athecata.
BLASTULA
That stage in the development of the ovum in which the outercells of the morula become more defined and form the blastoderm.
BLASTULE
Same as Blastula.
BLAT
To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senselessnoise; to talk inconsiderately. [Low]
BLATANCY
Blatant quality.
BLATANT
Bellowing, as a calf; bawling; brawling; clamoring;disagreeably clamorous; sounding loudly and harshly. "Harsh andblatant tone." R. H. Dana.A monster, which the blatant beast men call. Spenser.Glory, that blatant word, which haunts some military minds like thebray of the trumpet. W. Irving.
BLATANTLY
In a blatant manner.
BLATHER
To talk foolishly, or nonsensically.  G. Eliot.
BLATHERSKITE
A blustering, talkative fellow. [Local slang, U. S.] Barllett.
BLATTER
To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; topatter. [Archaic] "The rain blattered." Jeffrey.They procured . . . preachers to blatter against me, . . . so thatthey had place and time to belie me shamefully. Latimer.
BLATTERATION
Blattering.
BLATTERER
One who blatters; a babbler; a noisy, blustering boaster.
BLATTERING
Senseless babble or boasting.
BLATTEROON
A senseless babbler or boaster. [Obs.] "I hate suchblatteroons." Howell.
BLAUBOK
The blue buck. See Blue buck, under Blue.
BLAY
A fish. See Bleak, n.
BLAZE
A white spot on the forehead of a horse.
BLAZER
One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad. "Blazers ofcrime." Spenser.
BLAZING
Burning with a blaze; as, a blazing fire; blazing torches. SirW. Scott. Blazing star. (a) A comet. [Obs.] (b) A brilliant center ofattraction. (c) (Bot.) A name given to several plants; as, toChamรฆlirium luteum of the Lily family; Liatris squarrosa; and Aletrisfarinosa, called also colicroot and star grass.
BLAZON
To describe in proper terms (the figures of heraldic devices);also, to delineate (armorial bearings); to emblazon.The coat of , arms, which I am not herald enough to blazon intoEnglish. Addison.
BLAZONER
One who gives publicity, proclaims, or blazons; esp., one whoblazons coats of arms; a herald. Burke.
BLAZONMENT
The act or blazoning; blazoning; emblazonment.
BLEA
The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; thealburnum or sapwood.
BLEABERRY
See Blaeberry.
BLEACH
To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from;to blanch; to whiten.The destruction of the coloring matters attached to the bodies to bebleached is effected either by the action of the air and light, ofchlorine, or of sulphurous acid. Ure.Immortal liberty, whose look sublime Hath bleached the tyrant's cheekin every varying clime. Smollett.
BLEACHED
Whitened; make white.Let their bleached bones, and blood's unbleaching stain, Long markthe battlefield with hideous awe. Byron.
BLEACHER
One who whitens, or whose occupation is to whiten, bybleaching.
BLEACHERY
A place or an establishment where bleaching is done.
BLEACHING
The act or process of whitening, by removing color or stains;esp. the process of whitening fabrics by chemical agents. Ure.Bleaching powder, a powder for bleaching, consisting of chloride oflime, or some other chemical or chemicals.
BLEAK
A small European river fish (Leuciscus alburnus), of the familyCyprinidรฆ; the blay. [Written also blick.]
BLEAKY
Bleak. [Obs.] Dryden.
BLEAR
To make somewhat sore or watery, as the eyes; to dim, or blur,as the sight. Figuratively: To obscure (mental or moral perception);to blind; to hoodwink.That tickling rheums Should ever tease the lungs and blear the sight.Cowper.To blear the eye of, to deceive; to impose upon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BLEARED
Dimmed, as by a watery humor; affected with rheum.-- Blear"ed*ness (, n.Dardanian wives, With bleared visages, come forth to view The issueof the exploit. Shak.
BLEAREYE
A disease of the eyelids, consisting in chronic inflammation ofthe margins, with a gummy secretion of sebaceous matter. Dunglison.
BLEAREYEDNESS
The state of being blear-eyed.
BLEARY
Somewhat blear.
BLEAT
To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry likea sheep or calf.Then suddenly was heard along the main, To low the ox, to bleat thewoolly train. PopeThe ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baas, will never answer acalf when he bleats. Shak.
BLEATER
One who bleats; a sheep.In cold, stiff soils the bleaters oft complain Of gouty ails. Dyer.
BLEATING
Crying as a sheep does.Then came the shepherd back with his bleating flocks from theseaside. Longfellow.
BLEB
A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; ablister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc.Arsenic abounds with air blebs. Kirwan.
BLEBBY
Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass.
BLED
imp. & p. p. of Bleed.
BLEE
Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form. [Archaic]For him which is so bright of blee. Lament. of Mary Magd.That boy has a strong blee of his father. Forby.
BLEEDING
Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also,expressing anguish or compassion.
BLEMISH
Any mark of deformity or injury, whether physical or moral;anything; that diminishes beauty, or renders imperfect that which isotherwise well formed; that which impairs reputation.He shall take two he lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb of thefirst year without blemish. Lev. xiv. 10.The reliefs of an envious man are those little blemishes andimperfections that discover themselves in an illustrious character.Spectator.
BLEMISHLESS
Without blemish; spotless.A life in all so blemishless. Feltham.
BLEMISHMENT
The state of being blemished; blemish; disgrace; damage;impairment.For dread of blame and honor's blemishment. Spenser.
BLENCH
A looking aside or askance. [Obs.]These blenches gave my heart another youth. Shak.
BLENCH HOLDING
See Blanch holding.
BLEND
To mingle; to mix; to unite intimately; to pass or shadeinsensibly into each other, as colors.There is a tone of solemn and sacred feeling that blends with ourconviviality. Irving.
BLENDER
One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, usedin blending.
BLENDING
The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingletogether while wet, and shade into each other insensibly. Weale.
BLENDOUS
Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, blende.
BLENDWATER
A distemper incident to cattle, in which their livers areaffected. Crabb.
BLENHEIM SPANIEL
A small variety of spaniel, kept as a pet.
BLENK
To blink; to shine; to look. [Obs.]
BLENNOGENOUS
Generating mucus.
BLENNY
A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidรฆ; -- socalled from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous.
BLENT
Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained.Rider and horse, friend, foe, in one red burial blent. Byron.
BLEPHARITIS
Inflammation of the eyelids. -- Bleph`a*rit"ic (#), a.
BLESBOK
A South African antelope (Alcelaphus albifrons), having a largewhite spot on the forehead.
BLESSED
Beatified.
BLESSED THISTLE
See under Thistle.
BLESSEDLY
Happily; fortunately; joyfully.We shall blessedly meet again never to depart. Sir P. Sidney.
BLESSEDNESS
The state of being blessed; happiness; felicity; bliss;heavenly joys; the favor of God.The assurance of a future blessedness. Tillotson.Single blessedness, the unmarried state. "Grows, lives, and dies insingle blessedness." Shak.
BLESSER
One who blesses; one who bestows or invokes a blessing.
BLESSING
A gift. [A Hebraism] Gen. xxxiii. 11.
BLEST
Blessed. "This patriarch blest." Milton.White these blest sounds my ravished ear assail. Trumbull.
BLET
A form of decay in fruit which is overripe.
BLETONISM
The supposed faculty of perceiving subterraneous springs andcurrents by sensation; -- so called from one Bleton, of France.
BLETTING
A form of decay seen in fleshy, overripe fruit. Lindley.
BLEW
of Blow.
BLEYME
An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole andthe bone. [Obs.]
BLEYNTE
of Blench. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BLICKEY
A tin dinner pail. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett.
BLIGHT
To be affected by blight; to blast; as, this vine neverblights.
BLIGHTING
Causing blight.
BLIGHTINGLY
So as to cause blight.
BLIN
To stop; to cease; to desist. [Obs.] Spenser.
BLIND
Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds;blind flowers. Blind alley, an alley closed at one end; a cul-de-sac.-- Blind axle, an axle which turns but does not communicate motion.Knight.-- Blind beetle, one of the insects apt to fly against people, esp.at night.-- Blind cat (Zoรถl.), a species of catfish (Gronias nigrolabris),nearly destitute of eyes, living in caverns in Pennsylvania.-- Blind coal, coal that burns without flame; anthracite coal.Simmonds.-- Blind door, Blind window, an imitation of a door or window,without an opening for passage or light. See Blank door or window,under Blank, a.-- Blind level (Mining), a level or drainage gallery which has avertical shaft at each end, and acts as an inverted siphon. Knight.-- Blind nettle (Bot.), dead nettle. See Dead nettle, under Dead.-- Blind shell (Gunnery), a shell containing no charge, or one thatdoes not explode.-- Blind side, the side which is most easily assailed; a weak orunguarded side; the side on which one is least able or disposed tosee danger. Swift.-- Blind snake (Zoรถl.), a small, harmless, burrowing snake, of thefamily Typhlopidรฆ, with rudimentary eyes.-- Blind spot (Anat.), the point in the retina of the eye where theoptic nerve enters, and which is insensible to light.-- Blind tooling, in bookbinding and leather work, the indentedimpression of heated tools, without gilding; -- called also blanktooling, and blind blocking.-- Blind wall, a wall without an opening; a blank wall.
BLIND READER
A post-office clerk whose duty is to decipher obscureaddresses.
BLINDAGE
A cover or protection for an advanced trench or approach,formed of fascines and earth supported by a framework.
BLINDER
One of the leather screens on a bridle, to hinder a horse fromseeing objects at the side; a blinker.
BLINDFISH
A small fish (Amblyopsis spelรฆus) destitute of eyes, found inthe waters of the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky. Related fishes fromother caves take the same name.
BLINDFOLD
To cover the eyes of, as with a bandage; to hinder from seeing.And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face. Lukexxii. 64.
BLINDING
Making blind or as if blind; depriving of sight or ofunderstanding; obscuring; as, blinding tears; blinding snow.
BLINDLY
Without sight, discernment, or understanding; without thought,investigation, knowledge, or purpose of one's own.By his imperious mistress blindly led. Dryden.
BLINDNESS
State or condition of being blind, literally or figuratively.Darwin. Color blindness, inability to distinguish certain color. SeeDaltonism.
BLINDSTORY
The triforium as opposed to the clearstory.
BLINDWORM
A small, burrowing, snakelike, limbless lizard (Anguisfragilis), with minute eyes, popularly believed to be blind; theslowworm; -- formerly a name for the adder.Newts and blindworms do no wrong. Shak.
BLINK
The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by thereflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink.
BLINK BEER
Beer kept unbroached until it is sharp. Crabb.
BLINK-EYED
Habitually winking. Marlowe.
BLINKER
A kind of goggles, used to protect the eyes form glare, etc.
BLIRT
A gust of wind and rain. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
BLISS
Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree ofhappiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.An then at last our bliss Full and perfect is. Milton.
BLISSFUL
Full of, characterized by, or causing, joy and felicity; happyin the highest degree. "Blissful solitude." Milton.-- Bliss"ful*ly, adv.-- Bliss"ful*ness, n.
BLISSLESS
Destitute of bliss. Sir P. Sidney.
BLISSOM
To be lustful; to be lascivious. [Obs.]
BLISTER
To be affected with a blister or blisters; to have a blisterform on.Let my tongue blister. Shak.
BLISTERY
Full of blisters. Hooker.
BLITE
A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx. Blitum capitatumis the strawberry blite.
BLITHE
Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithespirit.The blithe sounds of festal music. Prescott.A daughter fair, So buxom, blithe, and debonair. Milton.
BLITHEFUL
Gay; full of gayety; joyous.
BLITHELY
In a blithe manner.
BLITHENESS
The state of being blithe. Chaucer.
BLITHESOME
Cheery; gay; merry.The blithesome sounds of wassail gay. Sir W. Scott.-- Blithe"some*ly, adv.-- Blithe"some*ness, n.
BLIVE
Quickly; forthwith. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BLIZZARD
A gale of piercingly cold wind, usually accompanied with fineand blinding snow; a furious blast. [U. S.]
BLOAT
To grow turgid as by effusion of liquid in the cellular tissue;to puff out; to swell. Arbuthnot.
BLOATED
Distended beyond the natural or usual size, as by the presenceof water, serum, etc.; turgid; swollen; as, a bloated face. Also,puffed up with pride; pompous.
BLOATEDNESS
The state of being bloated.
BLOATER
The common herring, esp. when of large size, smoked, and halfdried; -- called also bloat herring.
BLOB
A small fresh-water fish (Uranidea Richardsoni); the miller'sthumb.
BLOBBER
A bubble; blubber. [Low] T. Carew. Blobber lip, a thick,protruding lip.His blobber lips and beetle brows commend. Dryden.
BLOBBER-LIPPED
Having thick lips. "A blobber-lipped shell." Grew.
BLOCAGE
The roughest and cheapest sort of rubblework, in masonry.
BLOCK
The perch on which a bird of prey is kept.
BLOCK BOOK
A book printed from engraved wooden blocks instead of movabletypes.
BLOCK CHAIN
A chain in which the alternate links are broad blocks connectedby thin side links pivoted to the ends of the blocks, used withsprocket wheels to transmit power, as in a bicycle.
BLOCK SIGNAL
One of the danger signals or safety signals which guide themovement of trains in a block system. The signal is often so coupledwith a switch that act of opening or closing the switch operates thesignal also.
BLOCK SYSTEM
A system by which the track is divided into short sections, asof three or four miles, and trains are so run by the guidance ofelectric, or combined electric and pneumatic, signals that no trainenters a section or block until the preceding train has left it, asin absolute blocking, or that a train may be allowed to followanother into a block as long as it proceeds with excessive caution,as in permissive blocking.
BLOCK TIN
See under Tin.
BLOCKADER
A vessel employed in blockading.
BLOCKAGE
The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up.
BLOCKHEAD
A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding.The bookful blockhead, ignorantly read, With loads of learned lumberin his head. Pope.
BLOCKHEADED
Stupid; dull.
BLOCKHEADISM
That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity. Carlyle.
BLOCKHOUSE
An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for militarydefense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upperstory projecting over the lower, or so placed upon it as to have itssides make an angle wit the sides of the lower story, thus enablingthe defenders to fire downward, and in all directions; -- formerlymuch used in America and Germany.
BLOCKING COURSE
The finishing course of a wall showing above a cornice.
BLOCKISH
Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull."Blockish Ajax." Shak.-- Block"ish*ly, adv.-- Block"ish*ness, n.
BLOCKLIKE
Like a block; stupid.
BLOEDITE
A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium.
BLOMARY
See Bloomery.
BLOND METAL
A variety of clay ironstone, in Staffordshire, England, usedfor making tools.
BLONDE
A kind of silk lace originally of the color of raw silk, nowsometimes dyed; -- called also blond lace.
BLONDNESS
The state of being blond. G. Eliot.
BLOOD
Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purityof breed.
BLOOD VESSEL
Any vessel or canal in which blood circulates in an animal, asan artery or vein.
BLOOD-BOLTERED
Having the hair matted with clotted blood. [Obs. & R.]The blood-boltered Banquo smiles upon me. Shak.
BLOOD-SHOTTEN
Bloodshot. [Obs.]
BLOODBIRD
An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- socalled from the bright red color of the male bird.
BLOODED
Having pure blood, or a large admixture or pure blood; ofapproved breed; of the best stock.
BLOODFLOWER
A genus of bulbous plants, natives of Southern Africa, namedHรฆmanthus, of the Amaryllis family. The juice of H. toxicarius isused by the Hottentots to poison their arrows.
BLOODGUILTY
Guilty of murder or bloodshed. "A bloodguilty life." Fairfax.-- Blood"guilt`i*ness (, n.-- Blood"guilt`less, a.
BLOODHOUND
A breed of large and powerful dogs, with long, smooth, andpendulous ears, and remarkable for acuteness of smell. It is employedto recover game or prey which has escaped wounded from a hunter, andfor tracking criminals. Formerly it was used for pursuing runawayslaves. Other varieties of dog are often used for the same purposeand go by the same name. The Cuban bloodhound is said to be a varietyof the mastiff.
BLOODILY
In a bloody manner; cruelly; with a disposition to shed blood.
BLOODLET
bleed; to let blood. Arbuthnot.
BLOODLETTER
One who, or that which, lets blood; a phlebotomist.
BLOODLETTING
The act or process of letting blood or bleeding, as by openinga vein or artery, or by cupping or leeches; -- esp. applied tovenesection.
BLOODROOT
A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap,and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called alsopuccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint.It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as astimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria.
BLOODSHED
The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act ofshedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder.
BLOODSHEDDER
One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer.
BLOODSHEDDING
Bloodshed. Shak.
BLOODSHOT
Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vesselsturgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated.His eyes were bloodshot, . . . and his hair disheveled. Dickens.
BLOODSTICK
A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used tostrike the fleam into the vein. Youatt.
BLOODSTROKE
Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion inthe brain. Dunglison.
BLOODSUCKER
Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudomedicinalis), and related species.
BLOODTHIRSTY
Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous.-- Blood"thirst`i*ness (n.
BLOODULF
The European bullfinch.
BLOODWOOD
A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood.
BLOODWORT
A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock. The name isapplied also to bloodroot (Sanguinaria Canadensis), and to anextensive order of plants (Hรฆmodoraceรฆ), the roots of many species ofwhich contain a red coloring matter useful in dyeing.
BLOODY
To stain with blood. Overbury.
BLOODY FLUX
The dysentery, a disease in which the flux or discharge fromthe bowels has a mixture of blood. Arbuthnot.
BLOODY HAND
A red hand, as in the arms of Ulster, which is now thedistinguishing mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom.
BLOODY SWEAT
A sweat accompanied by a discharge of blood; a disease, calledsweating sickness, formerly prevalent in England and other countries.
BLOODY-MINDED
Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty. Dryden.
BLOODYBONES
A terrible bugbear.
BLOOM
A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as,the rose-red cobalt bloom.
BLOOMARY
See Bloomery.
BLOOMERY
A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of bloomsis made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.
BLOOMING
The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron.
BLOOMINGLY
In a blooming manner.
BLOOMINGNESS
A blooming condition.
BLOOMLESS
Without bloom or flowers. Shelley.
BLOOTH
Bloom; a blossoming. [Prov. Eng.]All that blooth means heavy autumn work for him and his hands. T.Hardy.
BLORE
The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast. [Obs.]A most tempestuous blore. Chapman.
BLOSMY
Blossomy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BLOSSOMLESS
Without blossoms.
BLOSSOMY
Full of blossoms; flowery.
BLOT
To take a blot; as, this paper blots easily.
BLOTCH
A large pustule, or a coarse eruption.Foul scurf and blotches him defile. Thomson.
BLOTCHED
Marked or covered with blotches.To give their blotched and blistered bodies ease. Drayton.
BLOTCHY
Having blotches.
BLOTE
To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat.[Obs.]
BLOTLESS
Without blot.
BLOTTER
A wastebook, in which entries of transactions are made as theytake place.
BLOTTESQUE
Characterized by blots or heavy touches; coarsely depicted;wanting in delineation. Ruskin.
BLOTTING PAPER
A kind of thick, bibulous, unsized paper, used to absorbsuperfluous ink from freshly written manuscript, and thus preventblots.
BLOUSE
A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, wornespecially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of anymaterial, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army.
BLOW
To flower; to blossom; to bloom.How blows the citron grove. Milton.
BLOW VALVE
See Snifting valve.
BLOW-OFF
as, a blow-off cock or pipe.
BLOW-OUT
The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by ablast of steam.
BLOWBALL
The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight toblow away. B. Jonson.
BLOWER
A device for producing a current of air; as: (a) A metal platetemporarily placed before the upper part of a grate or open fire. (b)A machine for producing an artificial blast or current of air bypressure, as for increasing the draft of a furnace, ventilating abuilding or shaft, cleansing gram, etc.
BLOWFLY
Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs oryoung larvรฆ (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animalproducts.
BLOWGUN
A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, throughwhich an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force ofthe breath. It is a weapon much used by certain Indians of Americaand the West Indies; -- called also blowpipe, and blowtube. SeeSumpitan.
BLOWHOLE
An air hole in a casting.
BLOWN
Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower. Shak.
BLOWPOINT
A child's game. [Obs.]
BLOWSE
See Blowze.
BLOWTH
A blossoming; a bloom. [Obs. or Archaic] "In the blowth andbud." Sir W. Raleigh.
BLOWTUBE
A long wrought iron tube, on the end of which the workmangathers a quantity of "metal" (melted glass), and through which heblows to expand or shape it; -- called also blowing tube, andblowpipe.
BLOWY
Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland.
BLOWZE
A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench. [Obs.] Shak.
BLOWZED
Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced;blowzy; disordered.Huge women blowzed with health and wind. Tennyson.
BLOWZY
Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy.
BLUB
To swell; to puff out, as with weeping. [Obs.]
BLUBBER
A large sea nettle or medusa.
BLUBBERED
Swollen; turgid; as, a blubbered lip. Spenser.
BLUBBERING
The act of weeping noisily.He spake well save that his blubbering interrupted him. Winthrop.
BLUCHER
A kind of half boot, named from the Prussian general Blรผcher.Thackeray.
BLUDGEON
A short stick, with one end loaded, or thicker and heavier thatthe other, used as an offensive weapon.
BLUE
Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy. [Colloq.] Berlinblue, Prussian blue.-- Mineral blue. See under Mineral.-- Prussian blue. See under Prussian.
BLUE GRASS
A species of grass (Poa compressa) with bluish green stems,valuable in thin gravelly soils; wire grass. Kentucky blue grass, aspecies of grass (Poa pratensis) which has running rootstocks andspreads rapidly. It is valuable as a pasture grass, as it enduresboth winter and drought better than other kinds, and is verynutritious.
BLUE HEN STATE
The State of Delaware; -- a popular sobriquet. It is said,though the story lacks proof, to have taken its origin from theinsistence of a Delaware Revolutionary captain, named Caldwell, thatno cock could be truly game unless the mother was a blue hen, whenceBlue Hen's Chickens came to be a nickname for the people of Delaware.
BLUE JAY
The common jay of the United States (Cyanocitta, or Cyanura,cristata). The predominant color is bright blue.
BLUE-EYE
The blue-cheeked honeysucker of Australia.
BLUE-EYED
Having blue eyes.
BLUE-EYED GRASS
a grasslike plant (Sisyrinchium anceps), with small flowers ofa delicate blue color.
BLUE-GRASS STATE
The Sate of Kentucky; -- a nickname alluding to the blue-grassregion, where fine horses are bred.
BLUE-JOHN
A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used forornamental purposes.
BLUE-SKYLAW
A law enacted to provide for the regulation and supervision ofinvestment companies in order to protect the public against companiesthat do not intend to do a fair and honest business and that offerinvestments that do not promise a fair return; -- so called becausethe promises made by some investment companies are as boundless oralluring as the blue sky, or, perhaps, because designed to clear awaythe clouds and fogs from the simple investor's horizon. [Colloq.]
BLUE-VEINED
Having blue veins or blue streaks.
BLUEBEARD
The hero of a mediรฆval French nursery legend, who, leavinghome, enjoined his young wife not to open a certain room in hiscastle. She entered it, and found the murdered bodies of his formerwives.-- Also used adjectively of a subject which it is forbidden toinvestigate.The Bluebeard chamber of his mind, into which no eye but his own mustlook. Carlyle.
BLUEBERRY
The berry of several species of Vaccinium, and ericaceousgenus, differing from the American huckleberries in containingnumerous minute seeds instead of ten nutlets. The commonest speciesare V. Pennsylvanicum and V. vacillans. V. corymbosum is the tallblueberry.
BLUEBILL
A duck of the genus Fuligula. Two American species (F. marilaand F. affinis) are common. See Scaup duck.
BLUEBIRD
A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the UnitedStates, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring.The male is blue, with the breast reddish. It is related to theEuropean robin. Pairy bluebird (Zoรถl.), a brilliant Indian or EastIndian bird of the genus Irena, of several species.
BLUEBOTTLE
A plant (Centaurea cyanus) which grows in grain fields. Itreceives its name from its blue bottle-shaped flowers.
BLUEBREAST
A small European bird; the blue-throated warbler.
BLUECOAT
One dressed in blue, as a soldier, a sailor, a beadle, etc.
BLUEFIN
A species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in LakeMichigan.
BLUEGOWN
One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars,in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributedcertain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.
BLUELY
With a blue color. Swift.
BLUENESS
The quality of being blue; a blue color. Boyle.
BLUENOSE
A nickname for a Nova Scotian.
BLUEPOLL
A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales.
BLUEPRINT
See under Print.
BLUESTOCKING
The American avocet (Recurvirostra Americana).
BLUESTOCKINGISM
The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry.[Colloq.]
BLUETHROAT
A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica),related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin andblue-throated warbler.
BLUETS
A name given to several different species of plants having blueflowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus orbluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium.
BLUEWING
The blue-winged teal. See Teal.
BLUEY
,a.Bluish. Southey.
BLUFF
To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on hishand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own handalthough it may be of less value. [U. S.]
BLUFF-BOWED
Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.
BLUFF-HEADED
Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.
BLUFFER
One who bluffs.
BLUFFNESS
The quality or state of being bluff.
BLUISH
Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. "Bluish mists." Dryden.-- Blu"ish*ly, adv.-- Blu"ish*ness, n.
BLUNDERER
One who is apt to blunder.
BLUNDERHEAD
A stupid, blundering fellow.
BLUNDERING
Characterized by blunders.
BLUNDERINGLY
In a blundering manner.
BLUNGE
To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay.
BLUNGER
A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi Tomlinson.
BLUNGING
The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger.Tomlinson.
BLUNT-WITTED
Dull; stupid.Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor! Shak.
BLUNTISH
Somewhat blunt.-- Blunt"ish*ness, n.
BLUNTLY
In a blunt manner; coarsely; plainly; abruptly; withoutdelicacy, or the usual forms of civility.Sometimes after bluntly giving his opinions, he would quietly layhimself asleep until the end of their deliberations. Jeffrey.
BLURRY
Full of blurs; blurred.
BLURT
To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately;to ejaculate; -- commonly with out.Others . . . can not hold, but blurt out, those words which afterwardthey forced to eat. Hakewill.To blurt at, to speak contemptuously of. [Obs.] Shak.
BLUSHER
One that blushes.
BLUSHET
A modest girl. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
BLUSHFUL
Full of blushes.While from his ardent look the turning Spring Averts her blushfulface. Thomson.
BLUSHING
Showing blushes; rosy red; having a warm and delicate colorlike some roses and other flowers; blooming; ruddy; roseate.The dappled pink and blushing rose. Prior.
BLUSHINGLY
In a blushing manner; with a blush or blushes; as, to answer orconfess blushingly.
BLUSHLESS
Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent.Vice now, secure, her blushless front shall raise. Dodsley.
BLUSHY
Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy. [R.] "A blushycolor." Harvey.
BLUSTER
To utter, or do, with noisy violence; to force by blustering;to bully.He bloweth and blustereth out . . . his abominable blasphemy. Sir T.More.As if therewith he meant to bluster all princes into a perfectobedience to his commands. Fuller.
BLUSTERER
One who, or that which, blusters; a noisy swaggerer.
BLUSTERINGLY
In a blustering manner.
BLUSTEROUS
Inclined to bluster; given to blustering; blustering. Motley.
BLUSTROUS
Blusterous. Shak.
BO
An exclamation used to startle or frighten. [Spelt also boh andboo.]
BO TREE
The peepul tree; esp., the very ancient tree standing atAnurajahpoora in Ceylon, grown from a slip of the tree under whichGautama is said to have received the heavenly light and so to havebecome Buddha.The sacred bo tree of the Buddhists (Ficus religiosa), which isplanted close to every temple, and attracts almost as much venerationas the status of the god himself. . . . It differs from the banyan(Ficus Indica) by sending down no roots from its branches. Tennent.
BOA
A genus of large American serpents, including the boaconstrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and thechevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).
BOA CONSTRICTOR
A large and powerful serpent of tropical America, sometimestwenty or thirty feet long. See Illustration in Appendix.
BOANERGES
Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.
BOAR
The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog.
BOARD
The stage in a theater; as, to go upon the boards, to enterupon the theatrical profession.
BOARDABLE
That can be boarded, as a ship.
BOARDER
One who boards a ship; one selected to board an enemy's ship.Totten.
BOARDING
The act of entering a ship, whether with a hostile or afriendly purpose.Both slain at one time, as they attempted the boarding of a frigate.Sir F. Drake.
BOARISH
Swinish; brutal; cruel.In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs. Shak.
BOAST
To dress, as a stone, with a broad chisel. Weale.
BOASTANCE
Boasting. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOASTER
One who boasts; a braggart.
BOASTFUL
Given to, or full of, boasting; inclined to boast; vaunting;vainglorious; self-praising.-- Boast"ful*ly, adv.-- Boast"ful*ness, n.
BOASTING
The act of glorying or vaunting; vainglorious speaking;ostentatious display.When boasting ends, then dignity begins. Young.
BOASTINGLY
Boastfully; with boasting. "He boastingly tells you." Burke.
BOASTIVE
Presumptuous. [R.]
BOASTLESS
Without boasting or ostentation.
BOAT
To go or row in a boat.I boated over, ran my craft aground. Tennyson.
BOAT BUG
An aquatic hemipterous insect of the genus Notonecta; -- socalled from swimming on its back, which gives it the appearance of alittle boat. Called also boat fly, boat insect, boatman, and waterboatman.
BOAT-SHAPED
See Cymbiform.
BOAT-TAIL
A large grackle or blackbird (Quiscalus major), found in theSouthern United States.
BOATAGE
Conveyance by boat; also, a charge for such conveyance.
BOATFUL
The quantity or amount that fills a boat.
BOATHOUSE
A house for sheltering boats.Half the latticed boathouse hides. Wordsworth.
BOATION
A crying out; a roaring; a bellowing; reverberation. [Obs.]The guns were heard . . . about a hundred Italian miles, in longboations. Derham.
BOATMAN
A boat bug. See Boat bug.
BOATMANSHIP
The art of managing a boat.
BOATSMAN
A boatman. [Archaic]
BOATSWAIN
An officer who has charge of the boats, sails, rigging, colors,anchors, cables, cordage, etc., of a ship, and who also summons thecrew, and performs other duties.
BOATWOMAN
A woman who manages a boat.
BOB
A working beam.
BOB WIG
A short wig with bobs or short curls; -- called also bobtailwig. Spectator.
BOB-CHERRY
A play among children, in which a cherry, hung so as to bobagainst the mouth, is to be caught with the teeth.
BOBAC
The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac).
BOBANCE
A boasting. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOBBER
One who, or that which, bobs.
BOBBERY
A squabble; a tumult; a noisy disturbance; as, to raise abobbery. [Low] Halliwell.
BOBBIN
A fine cord or narrow braid.
BOBBINET
A kind of cotton lace which is wrought by machines, and not byhand. [Sometimes written bobbin net.]The English machine-made net isnow confined to point net, warp net, and bobbin net, so called fromthe peculiar construction of the machines by which they are produced.Tomlinsom.
BOBBINWORK
Work woven with bobbins.
BOBBISH
Hearty; in good spirits. [Low, Eng.] Dickens.
BOBBY
A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, whoremodeled the police force. See Peeler. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.
BOBFLY
The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly.
BOBOLINK
An American singing bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). The male isblack and white; the female is brown; -- called also, ricebird,reedbird, and Boblincoln.The happiest bird of our spring is the bobolink. W. Irving.
BOBSTAY
A rope or chain to confine the bowsprit of a ship downward tothe stem or cutwater; -- usually in the pl.
BOBTAIL
An animal (as a horse or dog) with a short tail. Rag, tag, andbobtail, the rabble.
BOBTAILED
Having the tail cut short, or naturally short; curtailed; as, abobtailed horse or dog; a bobtailed coat.
BOBWHITE
The common qua(Colinus, or Ortyx, Virginianus); -- so calledfrom its note.
BOCAL
A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck.
BOCARDO
A form of syllogism of which the first and third propositionsare particular negatives, and the middle term a universalaffirmative.Baroko and Bocardo have been stumbling blocks to the logicians.Bowen.
BOCASINE
A sort of fine buckram.
BOCCA
The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory throughwhich the fused glass is taken out. Craig.
BOCE
A European fish (Box vulgaris), having a compressed body andbright colors; -- called also box, and bogue.
BOCK BEER
A strong beer, originally made in Bavaria. [Also written buckbeer.]
BOCKELET
A kind of long-winged hawk; -- called also bockerel, andbockeret. [Obs.]
BOCKEY
A bowl or vessel made from a gourd. [Local, New York] Bartlett.
BOCKING
A coarse woolen fabric, used for floor cloths, to covercarpets, etc.; -- so called from the town of Bocking, in England,where it was first made.
BOCKLAND
See Bookland.
BOD VEAL
Veal too immature to be suitable for food.
BODDICE
See Bodick.
BODE
To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; toportend to presage; to foreshow.A raven that bodes nothing but mischief. Goldsmith.Good onset bodes good end. Spenser.
BODEFUL
Portentous; ominous. Carlyle.
BODEMENT
An omen; a prognostic. [Obs.]This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl Makes all these bodements.Shak.
BODGE
A botch; a patch. [Dial.] Whitlock.
BODIAN
A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum), native of the EastIndies.
BODICED
Wearing a bodice. Thackeray.
BODIED
Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied.A doe . . . not altogether so fat, but very good flesh and goodbodied. Hakluyt.
BODILINESS
Corporeality. Minsheu.
BODING
Foreshowing; presaging; ominous.-- Bod"ing*ly, adv.
BODKIN
An implement of steel, bone, ivory, etc., with a sharp point,for making holes by piercing; a
BODLE
A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny.Sir W. Scott.
BODLEIAN
Of or pertaining to Sir Thomas Bodley, or to the celebratedlibrary at Oxford, founded by him in the sixteenth century.
BODOCK
The Osage orange. [Southwestern U.S.]
BODRAGE
A raid. [Obs.]
BODY
The shank of a type, or the depth of the shank (by which thesize is indicated); as, a nonpareil face on an agate body.
BOEOTIAN
Of or pertaining to Boeotia; hence, stupid; dull; obtuse.-- n.
BOER
A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent.
BOES
Behoves or behooves. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOG
To sink, as into a bog; to submerge in a bog; to cause to sinkand stick, as in mud and mire.At another time, he was bogged up to the middle in the slough ofLochend. Sir W. Scott.
BOGBERRY
The small cranberry (Vaccinium oxycoccus), which grows in boggyplaces.
BOGEY
A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy.
BOGGARD
A bogey. [Local, Eng.]
BOGGLE
To embarrass with difficulties; to make a bungle or botch of.[Local, U. S.]
BOGGLER
One who boggles.
BOGGLISH
Doubtful; skittish. [Obs.]
BOGGY
Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of abog; swampy; as, boggy land.
BOGIE
A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around avertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railwaytrack.
BOGIE ENGINE
A switching engine the running gear and driving gear of whichare on a bogie, or truck.
BOGLE
A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear.[Written also boggle.]
BOGSUCKER
The American woodcock; -- so called from its feeding among thebogs.
BOGTROTTER
One who lives in a boggy country; -- applied in derision to thelowest class of Irish. Halliwell.
BOGTROTTING
Living among bogs.
BOGUE
To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- saidonly of inferior craft.
BOGUS
Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally appliedto counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit.[Colloq. U. S.]
BOGWOOD
The wood of trees, esp. of oaks, dug up from peat bogs. It isof a shining black or ebony color, and is largely used for makingornaments.
BOGY
A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear. "Death's heads and bogies."J. H. Newman. [Written also bogey.]There are plenty of such foolish attempts at playing bogy in thehistory of savages. C. Kingsley.
BOHEA
Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea.
BOHEMIANISM
The characteristic conduct or methods of a Bohemian. [Modern]
BOHUN UPAS
See Upas.
BOIAR
See Boyar.
BOIL
Act or state of boiling. [Colloq.]
BOILARY
See Boilery.
BOILED
Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of aboiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes.
BOILER
A strong metallic vessel, usually of wrought iron platesriveted together, or a composite structure variously formed, in whichsteam is generated for driving engines, or for heating, cooking, orother purposes.
BOILERY
A place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine insalt making.
BOILING
Heated to the point of bubbling; heaving with bubbles; intumultuous agitation, as boiling liquid; surging; seething; swellingwith heat, ardor, or passion. Boiling point, the temperature at whicha fluid is converted into vapor, with the phenomena of ebullition.This is different for different liquids, and for the same liquidunder different pressures. For water, at the level of the sea,barometer 30 in., it is 212 ยบ Fahrenheit; for alcohol, 172.96ยบ; forether, 94.8ยบ; for mercury, about 675ยบ. The boiling point of water islowered one degree Fahrenheit for about 550 feet of ascent above thelevel of the sea.-- Boiling spring, a spring which gives out very hot water, or waterand steam, often ejecting it with much force; a geyser.-- To be at the boiling point, to be very angry.-- To keep the pot boiling, to keep going on actively, as in certaingames. [Colloq.]
BOILINGLY
With boiling or ebullition.And lakes of bitumen rise boiling higher. Byron.
BOIS DURCI
A hard, highly polishable composition, made of fine sawdustfrom hard wood (as rosewood) mixed with blood, and pressed.
BOIST
A box. [Obs.]
BOISTEROUSLY
In a boisterous manner.
BOISTEROUSNESS
The state or quality of being boisterous; turbulence; disorder;tumultuousness.
BOISTOUS
Rough or rude; coarse; strong; violent; boisterous; noisy.[Obs.] Chaucer.-- Bois"tous*ly, adv.-- Bois"tous*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOJANUS ORGAN
A glandular organ of bivalve mollusca, serving in part as akidney.
BOKADAM
See Cerberus.
BOKE
To poke; to thrust. [Obs. or Dial.]
BOLAR
Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature andqualities of bole; clayey.
BOLAS
A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more ballsof stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leathercord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others, forhurling at and entangling an animal.
BOLD
To make bold or daring. [Obs.] Shak.
BOLD EAGLE
an Australian eagle (Aquila audax), which destroys lambs andeven the kangaroo.-- To make bold, to take liberties or the liberty; to venture.
BOLD-FACED
Having a conspicuous or heavy face.
BOLDEN
To make bold; to encourage; to embolden.Ready speakers, being boldened with their present abilities to saymore, . . . use less help of diligence and study. Ascham.
BOLDLY
In a bold manner.
BOLDNESS
The state or quality of being bold.
BOLE
The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it.Enormous elm-tree boles did stoop and lean. Tennyson.
BOLECTION
A projecting molding round a panel. Same as Bilection. Gwilt.
BOLERO
A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it.
BOLETE
any fungus of the family Boletaceae.[WordNet 1.5]
BOLETIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the Boletus. Boletic acid, anacid obtained from the Boletus fomentarius, variety pseudo-igniarius.Same as Fumaric acid.
BOLETUS
A genus of fungi having the under side of the pileus or capcomposed of a multitude of fine separate tubes. A few are edible, andothers very poisonous.
BOLIDE
A kind of meteor; a bolis.
BOLIS
A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train oflight or sparks; esp. one which explodes.
BOLIVIAN
Of or pertaining to Bolivia.-- n.
BOLL
To form a boll or seed vessel; to go to seed.The barley was in the ear, and the flax was bolled. Ex. ix. 31.
BOLLANDISTS
The Jesuit editors of the "Acta Sanctorum", or Lives of theSaints; -- named from John Bolland, who began the work.
BOLLARD
An upright wooden or iron post in a boat or on a dock, used inveering or fastening ropes. Bollard timber (Naut.), a timber, alsocalled a knighthead, rising just within the stem in a ship, on eitherside of the bowsprit, to secure its end.
BOLLEN
See Boln, a.
BOLLING
A tree from which the branches have been cut; a pollard.
BOLLWORM
The larva of a moth (Heliothis armigera) which devours thebolls or unripe pods of the cotton plant, often doing great damage tothe crops.
BOLN
To swell; to puff. Holland.
BOLO
A kind of large knife resembling a machete. [Phil. Islands]
BOLOGNESE
Of or pertaining to Bologna.-- n.
BOLOGNIAN
Bolognese. Bolognian stone. See Bologna stone, under Bologna.
BOLOMETER
An instrument for measuring minute quantities of radiant heat,especially in different parts of the spectrum; -- called also actinicbalance, thermic balance. S. P. Langley.
BOLSA
An exchange for the transaction of business. [Sp. Amer. & Phil.Islands]
BOLSTER
A cushioned or a piece part of a saddle.
BOLSTERER
A supporter.
BOLT
To refuse to support, as a nomination made by a party to whichone has belonged or by a caucus in which one has taken part.
BOLTEL
See Boultel.
BOLTER
One who bolts; esp.: (a) A horse which starts suddenly aside.(b) A man who breaks away from his party.
BOLTHEAD
A long, straightnecked, glass vessel for chemicaldistillations; -- called also a matrass or receiver.
BOLTING
A darting away; a starting off or aside.
BOLTONITE
A granular mineral of a grayish or yellowish color, found inBolton, Massachusetts. It is a silicate of magnesium, belonging tothe chrysolite family.
BOLTROPE
A rope stitched to the edges of a sail to strengthen the sail.
BOLTSPRIT
See Bowsprit.
BOLTY
An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis). [Written alsobulti.]
BOLUS
A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill.
BOM
A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes.
BOMB
A shell; esp. a spherical shell, like those fired from mortars.See Shell.
BOMBACE
Cotton; padding. [Obs.]
BOMBARD
A piece of heavy ordnance formerly used for throwing stones andother ponderous missiles. It was the earliest kind of cannon.They planted in divers places twelve great bombards, wherewith theythrew huge stones into the air, which, falling down into the city,might break down the houses. Knolles.
BOMBARDMAN
One who carried liquor or beer in a can or bombard. [Obs.]They . . . made room for a bombardman that brought bouge for acountry lady. B. Jonson.
BOMBARDMENT
An attack upon a fortress or fortified town, with shells, hotshot, rockets, etc.; the act of throwing bombs and shot into a townor fortified place.
BOMBASINE
Same as Bombazine.
BOMBAST
High-sounding; inflated; big without meaning; magniloquent;bombastic.[He] evades them with a bombast circumstance,Horribly stuffed with epithets of war. Shak.Nor a tall metaphor in bombast way. Cowley.
BOMBASTRY
Swelling words without much meaning; bombastic language;fustian.Bombastry and buffoonery, by nature lofty and light, soar highest ofall. Swift.
BOMBAX
A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a treeof the genus Bombax.
BOMBAZINE
A twilled fabric for dresses, of which the warp is silk, andthe weft worsted. Black bombazine has been much used for mourninggarments. [Sometimes spelt bombasin, and bombasine.] Tomlinson.
BOMBIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid.
BOMBILATE
To hum; to buzz. [R.]
BOMBILATION
A humming sound; a booming.To . . . silence the bombilation of guns. Sir T. Browne.
BOMBINATE
To hum; to boom.
BOMBINATION
A humming or buzzing.
BOMBOLO
A thin spheroidal glass retort or flask, used in thesublimation of camphor. [Written also bumbelo, and bumbolo.]
BOMBPROOF
Secure against the explosive force of bombs.-- n.
BOMBSHELL
A bomb. See Bomb, n.
BOMBYCID
Like or pertaining to the genus Bombyx, or the familyBombycidรฆ.
BOMBYLIOUS
Buzzing, like a bumblebee; as, the bombylious noise of thehorse fly. [Obs.] Derham.
BOMBYX
A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. SeeSilkworm.
BON
Good; valid as security for something.
BON SILENE
A very fragrant tea rose with petals of various shades of pink.
BON TON
The height of the fashion; fashionable society.
BON VIVANT
A good fellow; a jovial companion; a free liver.
BON-ACCORD
Good will; good fellowship; agreement. [Scot.]
BONA FIDE
In or with good faith; without fraud or deceit; real or really;actual or actually; genuine or genuinely; as, you must proceed bonafide; a bona fide purchaser or transaction.
BONA FIDES
Good faith; honesty; freedom from fraud or deception.
BONA PERITURA
Perishable goods. Bouvier.
BONA ROBA
A showy wanton; a courtesan. Shak
BONAIR
Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding. [Obs.]
BONANZA
In mining, a rich mine or vein of silver or gold; hence,anything which is a mine of wealth or yields a large income. [Colloq.U. S.]
BONAPARTEAN
Of or pertaining to Napoleon Bonaparte or his family.
BONAPARTISM
The policy of Bonaparte or of the Bonapartes.
BONAPARTIST
One attached to the policy or family of Bonaparte, or of theBonapartes.
BONBON
Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty.
BONBONNIERE
A small fancy box or dish for bonbons.
BONCE
A boy's game played with large marbles.
BONCHRETIEN
A name given to several kinds of pears. See Bartlett.
BONCILATE
A substance composed of ground bone, mineral matters, etc.,hardened by pressure, and used for making billiard balls, boxes, etc.
BOND
The state of being bound; imprisonment; captivity, restraint."This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds." Acts xxvi.
BOND SERVANT
A slave; one who is bound to service without wages.If thy brother . . . be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee; thou shaltnot compel him to serve as a bond servant: but as an hired servant.Lev. xxv. 39, 40.
BOND SERVICE
The condition of a bond servant; sevice without wages; slavery.Their children . . . upon those did Solomon levy a tribute of bondservice. 1 Kings ix. 21.
BONDAGE
Villenage; tenure of land on condition of doing the meanestservices for the owner.
BONDAGER
A field worker, esp. a woman who works in the field. [Scot.]
BONDAR
A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar), allied to thegenet; -- called also musk cat.
BONDED
Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment ofduties, or for conformity to coertain regulations. Bonded goods,goods placed in a bonded warehouse; goods, for the duties on whichbonds are given at the customhouse.-- Bonded warehouse, a warehouse in which goods on which the dutiesare unpaid are stored under bond and in the joint custody of theimporter, or his agent, and the customs officers.
BONDER
A bonding stone or brick; a bondstone.
BONDHOLDER
A person who holds the bonds of a public or private corporationfor the payment of money at a certain time.
BONDMAID
A female slave, or one bound to service without wages, asdistinguished from a hired servant.
BONDMAN
A villain, or tenant in villenage.
BONDSLAVE
A person in a state of slavery; one whose person and libertyare subjected to the authority of a master.
BONDSMAN
A surety; one who is bound, or who gives security, for another.
BONDSTONE
A stone running through a wall from one face to another, tobind it together; a binding stone.
BONDSWOMAN
See Bondwoman.
BONDUC
See Nicker tree.
BONDWOMAN
A woman who is a slave, or in bondage.He who was of the bondwoman. Gal. iv. 23.
BONE
The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrateanimals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcicphosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone.
BONEACHE
Pain in the bones. Shak.
BONEBLACK
See Bone black, under Bone, n.
BONEDOG
The spiny dogfish.
BONEFISH
See Ladyfish.
BONELESS
Without bones. "Boneless gums." Shak.
BONESET
A medicinal plant, the thoroughwort (Eupatorium perfoliatum).Its properties are diaphoretic and tonic.
BONESETTER
One who sets broken or dislocated bones; -- commonly applied toone, not a regular surgeon, who makes an occupation of setting bones.-- Bone"set*ting, n.
BONESHAW
Sciatica. [Obs.]
BONETTA
See Bonito. Sir T. Herbert.
BONFIRE
A large fire built in the open air, as an expression of publicjoy and exultation, or for amusement.Full soon by bonfire and by bell, We learnt our liege was passingwell. Gay.
BONGO
Either of two large antelopes (Boรถcercus eurycercus of WestAfrica, and B. isaaci of East Africa) of a reddish or chestnut-browncolor with narrow white stripes on the body. Their flesh isespecially esteemed as food.
BONGRACE
A projecting bonnet or shade to protect the complexion; also, awide-brimmed hat. [Obs.]
BONIBELL
See Bonnibel. [Obs.] Spenser.
BONIFACE
An innkeeper.
BONIFORM
Sensitive or responsive to moral excellence. Dr. H. More.
BONIFY
To convert into, or make, good.To bonify evils, or tincture them with good. Cudworth.
BONINESS
The condition or quality of being bony.
BONITARY
Beneficial, as opposed to statutory or civil; as, bonitarydominion of land.
BONMOT
A witty repartee; a jest.
BONNAZ
A kind of embroidery made with a complicated sewing machine,said to have been originally invented by a Frenchman of the name ofBonnaz. The work is done either in freehand or by following aperforated design.
BONNE
(F., prop. good woman.) A female servant charged with the careof a young child.
BONNE BOUCHE
A delicious morsel or mouthful; a tidbit.
BONNET
An additional piece of canvas laced to the foot of a jib orforesail in moderate winds. Hakluyt.
BONNET ROUGE
The red cap adopted by the extremists in the French Revolution,which became a sign of patriotism at that epoch; hence, arevolutionist; a Red Republican.
BONNETED
Protected by a bonnet. See Bonnet, 4 (a).
BONNETLESS
Without a bonnet.
BONNIBEL
A handsome girl. [Obs.]
BONNIE
See Bonny, a.
BONNILASS
A "bonny lass"; a beautiful girl. [Obs.] Spenser.
BONNILY
Gayly; handsomely.
BONNINESS
The quality of being bonny; gayety [R.]
BONNY
A round and compact bed of ore, or a distinct bed, notcommunicating with a vein.
BONNYCLABBER
Coagulated sour milk; loppered milk; curdled milk; -- sometimescalled simply clabber. B. Jonson.
BONSPIEL
A cur [Scot.]
BONTEBOK
The pied antelope of South Africa (Alcelaphus pygarga). Itsface and rump are white. Called also nunni.
BONUS
A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilegegranted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter.Bouvier.
BONZE
A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun.
BOOBY
Having the characteristics of a booby; stupid.
BOOBYISH
Stupid; dull.
BOODH
Same as Buddha. Malcom.
BOODHISM
Same as Buddhism.
BOODHIST
Same as Buddhist.
BOOHOE
To bawl; to cry loudly. [Low] Bartlett.
BOOHOO
The sailfish; -- called also woohoo.
BOOK-LEARNED
Versed in books; having knowledge derived from books. [Often ina disparaging sense.]Whate'er these book-learned blockheads say, Solon's the veriest foolin all the play. Dryden.
BOOKBINDER
One whose occupation is to bind books.
BOOKBINDERY
A bookbinder's shop; a place or establishment for bindingbooks.
BOOKBINDING
The art, process, or business of binding books.
BOOKCASE
A case with shelves for holding books, esp. one with glazeddoors.
BOOKCRAFT
Authorship; literary skill.
BOOKER
One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; abookkeeper.
BOOKFUL
As much as will fill a book; a book full. Shak.-- a.
BOOKING CLERK
A clerk who registers passengers, baggage, etc., forconveyance, as by railway or steamship, or who sells passage ticketsat a booking office.
BOOKKEEPER
One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping thebooks and accounts in an office.
BOOKKEEPING
The art of recording pecuniary or business transactions in aregular and systematic manner, so as to show their relation to eachother, and the state of the business in which they occur; the art ofkeeping accounts. The books commonly used are a daybook, cashbook,journal, and ledger. See Daybook, Cashbook, Journal, and Ledger.Bookkeeping by single entry, the method of keeping books by carryingthe record of each transaction to the debit or credit of a singleaccount.-- Bookkeeping by double entry, a mode of bookkeeping in which twoentries of every transaction are carried to the ledger, one to theDr., or left hand, side of one account, and the other to the Cr., orright hand, side of a corresponding account, in order thaItalianmethod.
BOOKLESS
Without books; unlearned. Shenstone.
BOOKLET
A little book. T. Arnold.
BOOKMAKER
A betting man who "makes a book." See To make a book, underBook, n.
BOOKMAN
A studious man; a scholar. Shak.
BOOKMARK
Something placed in a book to guide in finding a particularpage or passage; also, a label in a book to designate the owner; abookplate.
BOOKMATE
A schoolfellow; an associate in study.
BOOKMONGER
A dealer in books.
BOOKPLATE
A label, placed upon or in a book, showing its ownership or itsposition in a library.
BOOKSELLER
One who sells books.
BOOKSELLING
The employment of selling books.
BOOKSHELF
A shelf to hold books.
BOOKSHOP
A bookseller's shop. [Eng.]
BOOKSTALL
A stall or stand where books are sold.
BOOKSTORE
A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England abookseller's shop.
BOOKWORM
Any larva of a beetle or moth, which is injurious to books.Many species are known.
BOOKY
Bookish.
BOOLY
A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wanderingfrom place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk,like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed forthe shelter of cattle or their keepers. [Obs.] [Written also boley,bolye, bouillie.] Spenser.
BOOM
A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending thebottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sailboom, etc.
BOOMDAS
A small African hyracoid mammal (Dendrohyrax arboreus)resembling the daman.
BOOMER
A North American rodent, so named because it is said to make abooming noise. See Sewellel.
BOOMERANG
A very singular missile weapon used by the natives of Australiaand in some parts of India. It is usually a curved stick of hardwood, from twenty to thirty inches in length, from two to threeinches wide, and half or three quarters of an inch thick. When thrownfrom the hand with a quick rotary motion, it describes veryremarkable curves, according to the shape of the instrument and themanner of throwing it, often moving nearly horizontally a longdistance, then curving upward to a considerable height, and finallytaking a retrograde direction, so as to fall near the place fromwhich it was thrown, or even far in the rear of it.
BOOMING
The act of producing a hollow or roaring sound; a violentrushing with heavy roar; as, the booming of the sea; a deep, hollowsound; as, the booming of bitterns. Howitt.
BOOMKIN
Same as Bumkin.
BOOMORAH
A small West African chevrotain (Hyรฆmoschus aquaticus),resembling the musk deer.
BOOMSLANGE
A large South African tree snake (Bucephalus Capensis).Although considered venomous by natives, it has no poison fangs.
BOON
The woody portion flax, which is separated from the fiber asrefuse matter by retting, braking, and scutching.
BOORISH
Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly.-- Boor"ish*ly, adv.-- Boor"ish*ness, n.Which is in truth a gross and boorish opinion. Milton.
BOORT
See Bort.
BOOSE
A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal. [Prov. Eng.]Halliwell.
BOOSER
A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer.
BOOST
To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb);to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in makingadvancement. [Colloq. U. S.]
BOOSTER
An instrument for regulating the electro-motive force in analternating-current circuit; -- so called because used to "boost", orraise, the pressure in the circuit.
BOOT
The metal casing and flange fitted about a pipe where it passesthrough a roof. Boot catcher, the person at an inn whose business itwas to pull off boots and clean them. [Obs.] Swift.-- Boot closer, one who, or that which, sews the uppers of boots.-- Boot crimp, a frame or device used by bootmakers for drawing andshaping the body of a boot.-- Boot hook, a hook with a handle, used for pulling on boots.-- Boots and saddles (Cavalry Tactics), the trumpet call which isthe first signal for mounted drill.-- Sly boots. See Slyboots, in the Vocabulary.
BOOTBLACK
One who blacks boots.
BOOTED
Having an undivided, horny, bootlike covering; -- said of thetarsus of some birds.
BOOTEE
A half boot or short boot.
BOOTHALE
To forage for booty; to plunder. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
BOOTHY
See Bothy.
BOOTING
Advantage; gain; gain by plunder; booty. [Obs.] Sir. J.Harrington.
BOOTJACK
A device for pulling off boots.
BOOTLESS
Unavailing; unprofitable; useless; without advantage orsuccess. Chaucer.I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers. Shak.-- Boot"less*ly, adv.-- Boot"less*ness, n.
BOOTLICK
A toady. [Low, U. S.] Bartlett.
BOOTMAKER
One who makes boots.-- Boot"mak`ing, n.
BOOTS
A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks theboots and shoes.
BOOTTOPPING
The act or process of daubing a vessel's bottom near thesurface of the water with a mixture of tallow, sulphur, and resin, asa temporary protection against worms, after the slime, shells, etc.,have been scraped off.
BOOTTREE
An instrument to stretch and widen the leg of a boot,consisting of two pieces, together shaped like a leg, between which,when put into the boot, a wedge is driven.The pretty boots trimly stretched on boottrees. Thackeray.
BOOTY
That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery,especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage. Milton.To play booty, to play dishonestly, with an intent to lose; to allowone's adversary to win at cards at first, in order to induce him tocontinue playing and victimize him afterwards. [Obs.] L'Estrange.
BOOZE
To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; totipple. [Written also bouse, and boose.] Landor.This is better than boozing in public houses. H. R. Haweis.
BOOZER
One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; abouser.
BOOZY
A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy.[Colloq.] C. Kingsley.
BOPEEP
The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so asto startle some one (as by children in play), or of looking out anddrawing suddenly back, as if frightened.I for sorrow sung, That such a king should play bopeep, And go thefools among. Shak.
BORABLE
Capable of being bored. [R.]
BORACHTE
A large leather bottle for liquors, etc., made of the skin of agoat or other animal. Hence: A drunkard. [Obs.]You're an absolute borachio. Congreve.
BORACIC
Pertaining to, or produced from, borax; containing boron;boric; as, boracic acid.
BORACITE
A mineral of a white or gray color occurring massive and inisometric crystals; in composition it is a magnesium borate withmagnesium chloride.
BORACOUS
Relating to, or obtained from, borax; containing borax.
BORAGE
A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis),which is used, esp. in France, as a demulcent and diaphoretic.
BORAGEWORT
Plant of the Borage family.
BORAGINACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants(Boraginaceรฆ) which includes the borage, heliotrope, beggar's lice,and many pestiferous plants.
BORAGINEOUS
Relating to the Borage tribe; boraginaceous.
BORAMEZ
See Barometz.
BORATE
A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base orpositive radical.
BORAX
A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste,used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors onporcelain, and as a soap. It occurs native in certain mineralsprings, and is made from the boric acid of hot springs in Tuscany.It was originally obtained from a lake in Thibet, and was sent toEurope under the name of tincal. Borax is a pyroborate or tetraborateof sodium, Na2B4O7.10H2O. Borax bead. (Chem.) See Bead, n., 3.
BORBORYGM
A rumbling or gurgling noise produced by wind in the bowels.Dunglison.
BORD
The face of coal parallel to the natural fissures.
BORD SERVICE
Service due from a bordar; bordage.
BORDAGE
The base or servile tenure by which a bordar held his cottage.
BORDAR
A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; acottier.The cottar, the bordar, and the laborer were bound to aid in the workof the home farm. J. R. Green.
BORDEAUX
Pertaining to Bordeaux in the south of France.-- n.
BORDEAUX MIXTURE
A fungicidal mixture composed of blue vitriol, lime, and water.The formula in common use is: blue vitriol, 6 lbs.; lime, 4 lbs.;water, 35 -- 50 gallons.
BORDELAIS
Of or pertaining to Bordeaux, in France, or to the districtaround Bordeaux.
BORDELLER
A keeper or a frequenter of a brothel. [Obs.] Gower.
BORDEREAU
A note or memorandum, esp. one containing an enumeration ofdocuments.
BORDERER
One who dwells on a border, or at the extreme part or confinesof a country, region, or tract of land; one who dwells near to aplace or region.Borderers of the Caspian. Dyer.
BORDLAND
Either land held by a bordar, or the land which a lord kept forthe maintenance of his board, or table. Spelman.
BORDLODE
The service formerly required of a tenant, to carry timber fromthe woods to the lord's house. Bailey. Mozley & W.
BORDMAN
A bordar; a tenant in bordage.
BORDURE
A border one fifth the width of the shield, surrounding thefield. It is usually plain, but may be charged.
BORE
To shoot out the nose or toss it in the air; Crabb.
BOREAL
Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, aboreal bird; a boreal blast.So from their own clear north in radiant streams, Bright over Europebursts the boreal morn. Thomson.
BOREAS
The north wind; -- usually a personification.
BORECOLE
A brassicaceous plant of many varieties, cultivated for itsleaves, which are not formed into a compact head like the cabbage,but are loose, and are generally curled or wrinkled; kale.
BOREE
Same as Bourrร\'82. [Obs.] Swift.
BOREL
See Borrel.
BORELE
The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodusbicornis).
BORIC
Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron. Boric acid, a whitecrystalline substance B(OH)3, easily obtained from its salts, andoccurring in solution in the hot lagoons of Tuscany.
BORIDE
A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basicelement or radical; -- formerly called boruret.
BORING
The chips or fragments made by boring. Boring bar, a revolvingor stationary bar, carrying one or more cutting tools for dressinground holes.-- Boring tool (Metal Working), a cutting tool placed in a cutterhead to dress round holes. Knight.
BORNE
Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t.
BORNEOL
A rare variety of camphor, C10H17.OH, resembling ordinarycamphor, from which it can be produced by reduction. It is said tooccur in the camphor tree of Borneo and Sumatra (Dryobalanopscamphora), but the natural borneol is rarely found in European orAmerican commerce, being in great request by the Chinese. Called alsoBorneo camphor, Malay camphor, and camphol.
BORNITE
A valuable ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur;-- also called purple copper ore (or erubescite), in allusion to thecolors shown upon the slightly tarnished surface.
BOROFLUORIDE
A double fluoride of boron and hydrogen, or some other positiveelement, or radical; -- called also fluoboride, and formerlyfluoborate.
BOROGLYCERIDE
A compound of boric acid and glycerin, used as an antiseptic.
BORON
A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax. It isreduced with difficulty to the free state, when it can be obtained inseveral different forms; viz., as a substance of a deep olive color,in a semimetallic form, and in colorless quadratic crystals similarto the diamond in hardness and other properties. It occurs in naturealso in boracite, datolite, tourmaline, and some other minerals.Atomic weight 10.9. Symbol B.
BOROSILICATE
A double salt of boric and silicic acids, as in the naturalminerals tourmaline, datolite, etc.
BOROUGH-ENGLISH
A custom, as in some ancient boroughs, by which lands andtenements descend to the youngest son, instead of the eldest; or, ifthe owner have no issue, to the youngest brother. Blackstone.
BOROUGHHEAD
See Headborough. [Obs.]
BOROUGHHOLDER
A headborough; a borsholder.
BOROUGHMASTER
The mayor, governor, or bailiff of a borough.
BOROUGHMONGER
One who buys or sells the parliamentary seats of boroughs.
BORRACHO
See Borachio. [Obs.]
BORREL
Ignorant, unlearned; belonging to the laity. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BORROW
To take (one or more) from the next higher denomination inorder to add it to the next lower; -- a term of subtraction when thefigure of the subtrahend is larger than the corresponding one of theminuend.
BORROWER
One who borrows.Neither a borrower nor a lender be. Shak.
BORSHOLDER
The head or chief of a tithing, or borough (see 2d Borough);the headborough; a parish constable. Spelman.
BORT
Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments madein cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used inlapidary work.
BORURET
A boride. [Obs.]
BORWE
Pledge; borrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOS
A genus of ruminant quadrupeds, including the wild and domesticcattle, distinguished by a stout body, hollow horns, and a large foldof skin hanging from the neck.
BOSA
A drink, used in the East. See Boza.
BOSCAGE
Food or sustenance for cattle, obtained from bushes and trees;also, a tax on wood.
BOSH
Figure; outline; show. [Obs.]
BOSHBOK
A kind of antelope. See Bush buck.
BOSHVARK
The bush hog. See under Bush, a thicket.
BOSJESMAN
; pl. Bosjesmans. [D. boschjesman.]
BOSK
A thicket; a small wood. "Through bosk and dell." Sir W. Scott.
BOSKAGE
Same as Boscage.Thridding the somber boskage of the wood. Tennyson.
BOSKINESS
Boscage; also, the state or quality of being bosky.
BOSOMED
Having, or resembling, bosom; kept in the bosom; hidden.
BOSOMY
Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows.
BOSON
See Boatswain. [Obs.] Dryden.
BOSPORIAN
Of or pertaining to the Thracian or the Cimmerian Bosporus.The Alans forced the Bosporian kings to pay them tribute andexterminated the Taurians. Tooke.
BOSPORUS
A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas;as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait ofConstantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; theCimmerian Bosporus, between the Black Sea and Sea of Azof. [Writtenalso Bosphorus.]
BOSQUET
See Bosket.
BOSS
A projecting ornament placed at the intersection of the ribs ofceilings, whether vaulted or flat, and in other situations.
BOSSAGE
A stone in a building, left rough and projecting, to beafterward carved into shape. Gwilt.
BOSSED
Embossed; also, bossy.
BOSSET
A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer.
BOSSISM
The rule or practices of bosses, esp. political bosses. [Slang,U. S.]
BOSSY
Ornamented with bosses; studded.
BOSTON
A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs offifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston,Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the Frencharmy in America during the Revolutionary war.
BOSTRYX
A form of cymose inflorescence with all the flowers on one sideof the rachis, usually causing it to curl; -- called also a uniparoushelicoid cyme.
BOSWELLIAN
Relating to, or characteristic of, Boswell, the biographer ofDr. Johnson.
BOSWELLISM
The style of Boswell.
BOT
See Bots.
BOTANIST
One skilled in botany; one versed in the knowledge of plants.
BOTANIZE
To seek after plants for botanical investigation; to studyplants.
BOTANIZER
One who botanizes.
BOTANOLOGER
A botanist. [Obs.]
BOTANOLOGY
The science of botany. [Obs.] Bailey.
BOTANOMANCY
An ancient species of divination by means of plants, esp. sageand fig leaves.
BOTANY BAY
A harbor on the east coast of Australia, and an English convictsettlement there; -- so called from the number of new plants found onits shore at its discovery by Cook in 1770.
BOTARGO
A sort of cake or sausage, made of the salted roes of themullet, much used on the coast of the Mediterranean as an incentiveto drink.
BOTCHEDLY
In a clumsy manner.
BOTCHER
A young salmon; a grilse.
BOTCHERLY
Bungling; awkward. [R.]
BOTCHERY
A botching, or that which is done by botching; clumsy orcareless workmanship.
BOTCHY
Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done. "This botchybusiness." Bp. Watson.
BOTELESS
Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless.
BOTFLY
A dipterous insect of the family (Estridรฆ, of many differentspecies, some of which are particularly troublesome to domesticanimals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit theireggs. A common species is one of the botflies of the horse(Gastrophilus equi), the larvรฆ of which (bots) are taken into thestomach of the animal, where they live several months and passthrough their larval states. In tropical America one speciessometimes lives under the human skin, and another in the stomach. SeeGadfly.
BOTH
The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception ofeither.
BOTH-HANDS
A factotum. [R.]He is his master's both-hands, I assure you. B. Jonson.
BOTHER
To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother.
BOTHERATION
The act of bothering, or state of being bothered; cause oftrouble; perplexity; annoyance; vexation. [Colloq.]
BOTHERER
One who bothers.
BOTHERSOME
Vexatious; causing bother; causing trouble or perplexity;troublesome.
BOTHIE
Same as Bothy. [Scot.]
BOTHRENCHYMA
Dotted or pitted ducts or vessels forming the pores seen inmany kinds of wood.
BOTOCUDOS
A Brazilian tribe of Indians, noted for their use of poisons; -- also called Aymborรฉs.
BOTRYOGEN
A hydrous sulphate of iron of a deep red color. It often occursin botryoidal form.
BOTRYOLITE
A variety of datolite, usually having a botryoidal structure.
BOTS
The larvรฆ of several species of botfly, especially those larvยทhich infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and aresupposed to be the cause of various ailments. [Written also botts.]
BOTTLE
To put into bottles; to inclose in, or as in, a bottle orbottles; to keep or restrain as in a bottle; as, to bottle wine orporter; to bottle up one's wrath.
BOTTLE GREEN
A dark shade of green, like that of bottle glass.-- Bot"tle-green`, a.
BOTTLE-NECK FRAME
An inswept frame. [Colloq.]
BOTTLE-NOSED
Having the nose bottleshaped, or large at the end. Dickens.
BOTTLEHEAD
A cetacean allied to the grampus; -- called also bottle-nosedwhale.
BOTTLER
One who bottles wine, beer, soda water, etc.
BOTTLESCREW
A corkscrew. Swift.
BOTTLING
The act or the process of putting anything into bottles (asbeer, mineral water, etc.) and corking the bottles.
BOTTOM
The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, thevessel itself; a ship.My ventures are not in one bottom trusted. Shak.Not to sell the teas, but to return them to London in the samebottoms in which they were shipped. Bancroft.Full bottom, a hull of such shape as permits carrying a large amountof merchandise.
BOTTOM FERMENTATION
A slow alcoholic fermentation during which the yeast cellscollect at the bottom of the fermenting liquid. It takes place at atemperature of 4ยบ - 10ยบ C. (39ยบ - 50ยบF.). It is used in making lagerbeer and wines of low alcohol content but fine bouquet.
BOTTOMED
Having at the bottom, or as a bottom; resting upon a bottom;grounded; -- mostly, in composition; as, sharp-bottomed; well-bottomed.
BOTTOMLESS
Without a bottom; hence, fathomless; baseless; as, a bottomlessabyss. "Bottomless speculations." Burke.
BOTTOMRY
A contract in the nature of a mortgage, by which the owner of aship, or the master as his agent, hypothecates and binds the ship(and sometimes the accruing freight) as security for the repayment ofmoney advanced or lent for the use of the ship, if she terminates hervoyage successfully. If the ship is lost by perils of the sea, thelender loses the money; but if the ship arrives safe, he is toreceive the money lent, with the interest or premium stipulated,although it may, and usually does, exceed the legal rate of interest.See Hypothecation.
BOTTS
See Bots.
BOTULIFORM
Having the shape of a sausage. Henslow.
BOUCHE
Same as Bush, a lining.
BOUCHEES
Small patties.
BOUCHERIZE
To impregnate with a preservative solution of copper sulphate,as timber, railroad ties, etc.
BOUD
A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc. [Obs.]Tusser., n. Etym: [F., fr. bouder to pout, be sulky.]
BOUDOIR
A small room, esp. if pleasant, or elegantly furnished, towhich a lady may retire to be alone, or to receive intimate friends;a lady's (or sometimes a gentleman's) private room. Cowper.
BOUFFE
Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe.
BOUGAINVILLAEA
A genus of plants of the order Nyctoginaceรฆ, from tropicalSouth America, having the flowers surrounded by large bracts.
BOUGE
To stave in; to bilge. [Obs.] Holland.
BOUGET
A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; --also called water bouget.
BOUGHT
imp. & p. p. of Buy.
BOUGHTEN
Purchased; not obtained or produced at home. Coleridge.
BOUGHTY
Bending. [Obs.] Sherwood.
BOUGIE
A long, flexible instrument, that is
BOUGIE DECIMALE
A photometric standard used in France, having the value of onetwentieth of the Violle platinum standard, or slightly less than aBritish standard candle. Called also decimal candle.
BOUILLI
Boiled or stewed meat; beef boiled with vegetables in waterfrom which its gravy is to be made; beef from which bouillon or souphas been made.
BOUILLON
An excrescence on a horse's frush or frog.
BOUL
A curved handle. Sir W. Scott.
BOULANGERITE
A mineral of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, usuallyin plumose masses, also compact. It is sulphide of antimony and lead.
BOULANGISM
The spirit or principles of a French political movementidentified with Gen. Georges Boulanger (d. 1891), whose militarismand advocacy of revenge on Germany attracted to him a miscellaneousparty of monarchists and Republican malcontents. -- Bou*lan"gist (#),n.
BOULDER
Same as Bowlder.
BOULDERY
Characterized by bowlders.
BOULEVARDIER
A frequenter of a city boulevard, esp. in Paris.  F. Harrison.
BOULEVERSEMENT
Complete overthrow; disorder; a turning upside down.
BOULT
Corrupted form Bolt.
BOULTER
A long, stout fishing line to which many hooks are attached.
BOUN
Ready; prepared; destined; tending. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOUNCE
A dogfish of Europe (Scyllium catulus).
BOUNCINGLY
With a bounce.
BOUND
The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of anyobject or space; that which limits or restrains, or within whichsomething is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary.He hath compassed the waters with bounds. Job xxvi. 10.On earth's remotest bounds. Campbell.And mete the bounds of hate and love. Tennyson.To keep within bounds, not to exceed or pass beyond assigned limits;to act with propriety or discretion.
BOUNDARY
That which indicates or fixes a limit or extent, or marks abound, as of a territory; a bounding or separating line; a real orimaginary limit.But still his native country lies Beyond the boundaries of the skies.N. Cotton.That bright and tranquil stream, the boundary of Louth and Meath.Macaulay.Sensation and reflection are the boundaries of our thoughts. Locke.
BOUNDER
One who, or that which, limits; a boundary. Sir T. Herbert.
BOUNDING
Moving with a bound or bounds.The bounding pulse, the languid limb. Montgomery.
BOUNDLESS
Without bounds or confines; illimitable; vast; unlimited. "Theboundless sky." Bryant. "The boundless ocean." Dryden. "Boundlessrapacity." "Boundless prospect of gain." Macaulay.
BOUNTEOUS
Liberal in charity; disposed to give freely; generouslyliberal; munificent; beneficent; free in bestowing gifts; as,bounteous production.But O, thou bounteous Giver of all good. Cowper.-- Boun"te*ous*ly, adv.-- Boun"te*ous*ness, n.
BOUNTIFUL
Goodness; generosity. [Obs.] Spenser.
BOUQUETIN
The ibex.
BOUR
A chamber or a cottage. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOURBON WHISKY
See under Whisky.
BOURBONISM
The principles of those adhering to the house of Bourbon;obstinate conservatism.
BOURBONIST
One who adheres to the house of Bourbon; a legitimist.
BOURD
A jest. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BOURDER
A jester. [Obs.]
BOURDON
A pilgrim's staff.
BOURGEOIS
A size of type between long primer and brevier. See Type.
BOURGEOISIE
The French middle class, particularly such as are concerned in,or dependent on, trade.
BOURGEON
To sprout; to put forth buds; to shoot forth, as a branch.Gayly to bourgeon and broadly to grow. Sir W. Scott.
BOURI
A mullet (Mugil capito) found in the rivers of Southern Europeand in Africa.
BOURNLESS
Without a bourn or limit.
BOURNONITE
A mineral of a steel-gray to black color and metallic luster,occurring crystallized, often in twin crystals shaped like cogwheels(wheel ore), also massive. It is a sulphide of antimony, lead, andcopper.
BOURNOUS
See Burnoose.
BOURREE
An old French dance tune in common time.
BOURSE
An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet forbusiness at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris.
BOUSE
To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze.
BOUSER
A toper; a boozer.
BOUSTROPHEDON
An ancient mode of writing, in alternate directions, one linefrom left to right, and the next from right to left (as fields areplowed), as in early Greek and Hittite.
BOUSTROPHEDONIC
Relating to the boustrophedon mode of writing.
BOUSTROPHIC
Boustrophedonic.
BOUSY
Drunken; sotted; boozy.In his cups the bousy poet songs. Dryden.
BOUTADE
An outbreak; a caprice; a whim. [Obs.]
BOUTEFEU
An incendiary; an inciter of quarrels. [Obs.]Animated by . . . John ร  Chamber, a very boutefeu, . . . they enteredinto open rebellion. Bacon.
BOUTONNIERE
A bouquet worn in a buttonhole.
BOUTS-RIMES
Words that rhyme, proposed as the ends of verses, to be filledout by the ingenuity of the person to whom they are offered.
BOVATE
An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; anancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usuallyestimated at fifteen acres.
BOVEY COAL
A kind of mineral coal, or brown lignite, burning with a weakflame, and generally a disagreeable odor; -- found at Bovey Tracey,Devonshire, England. It is of geological age of the oรถlite, and notof the true coal era.
BOVID
Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genusBos is the type.
BOVIFORM
Resembling an ox in form; ox-shaped. [R.]
BOVINE
of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling,the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope.
BOW
An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in tokenof reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, abow of deep humility.
BOW HAND
The hand that holds the bow, i. e., the left hand.Surely he shoots wide on the bow hand. Spenser.
BOW NET
.
BOW OAR
.
BOW-BELLS
The bells of Bow Church in London; cockneydom.People born within the sound of Bow-bells are usually calledcockneys. Murray's Handbook of London.
BOW-LEGGED
Having crooked legs, esp. with the knees bent outward. Johnson.
BOW-PEN
Bow-compasses carrying a drawing pen. See Bow-compass.
BOW-PENCIL
Bow-compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil.
BOW-SAW
A saw with a thin or narrow blade set in a strong frame.
BOWABLE
Capable of being bowed or bent; flexible; easily influenced;yielding. [Obs.]
BOWBELL
One born within hearing distance of Bow-bells; a cockney.Halliwell.
BOWBENT
Bent, like a bow. Milton.
BOWDLERIZE
To expurgate, as a book, by omitting or modifying the partsconsidered offensive.
BOWEL
Hence, figuratively: The interior part of anything; as, thebowels of the earth.His soldiers . . . cried out amain, And rushed into the bowels of thebattle. Shak.
BOWELED
Having bowels; hollow. "The boweled cavern." Thomson.
BOWELLESS
Without pity. Sir T. Browne.
BOWENITE
A hard, compact variety of serpentine found in Rhode Island. Itis of a light green color and resembles jade.
BOWER
An anchor carried at the bow of a ship.
BOWER BIRD
An Australian bird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus or holosericeus),allied to the starling, which constructs singular bowers orplayhouses of twigs and decorates them with brightcolored objects;the satin bird.
BOWER-BARFF PROCESS
A certain process for producing upon articles of iron or steelan adherent coating of the magnetic oxide of iron (which is notliable to corrosion by air, moisture, or ordinary acids). This isaccomplished by producing, by oxidation at about 1600ยบ F. in a closedspace, a coating containing more or less of the ferric oxide (Fe2O3)and the subsequent change of this in a reduced atmosphere to themagnetic oxide (Fe2O4).
BOWERY
Shading, like a bower; full of bowers.A bowery maze that shades the purple streams. Trumbull.
BOWESS
Same as Bower. [Obs.]
BOWFIN
A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva) found in the fresh watersof the United States; the mudfish; -- called also Johnny Grindle, anddogfish.
BOWGE
To swell out. See Bouge. [Obs.]
BOWGRACE
A frame or fender of rope or junk, laid out at the sides orbows of a vessel to secure it from injury by floating ice.
BOWHEAD
The great Arctic or Greenland whale. (Balรฆna mysticetus). SeeBaleen, and Whale.
BOWIE KNIFE
A knife with a strong blade from ten to fifteen inches long,and double-edged near the point; -- used as a hunting knife, andformerly as a weapon in the southwestern part of the United States.It was named from its inventor, Colonel James Bowie. Also, byextension, any large sheath knife.
BOWINGLY
In a bending manner.
BOWKNOT
A knot in which a portion of the string is drawn through in theform of a loop or bow, so as to be readily untied.
BOWL
An ancient game, popular in Great Britain, played with biasedballs on a level plat of greensward.Like an uninstructed bowler, . . . who thinks to attain the jack bydelivering his bowl straightforward upon it. Sir W. Scott.
BOWLDERY
Characterized by bowlders.
BOWLEG
A crooked leg. Jer. Taylor.
BOWLER
One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or anyother game.
BOWLESS
Destitute of a bow.
BOWLINE
A rope fastened near the middle of the leech or perpendicularedge of the square sails, by subordinate ropes, called bridles, andused to keep the weather edge of the sail tight forward, when theship is closehauled. Bowline bridles, the ropes by which the bowlineis fastened to the leech of the sail.-- Bowline knot. See Illust. under Knot.-- On a bowline, close-hauled or sailing close to the wind; -- saidof a ship.
BOWLING
The act of playing at or rolling bowls, or of rolling the ballat cricket; the game of bowls or of tenpins. Bowling alley, a coveredplace for playing at bowls or tenpins.-- Bowling green, a level piece of greensward or smooth ground forbowling, as the small park in lower Broadway, New York, where theDutch of New Amsterdam played this game.
BOWLS
See Bowl, a ball, a game.
BOWMAN
A man who uses a bow; an archer.The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen.Jer. iv. 29.Bowman's root. (Bot.) See Indian physic, under Indian.
BOWNE
To make ready; to prepare; to dress. [Obs.]We will all bowne ourselves for the banquet. Sir W. Scott.
BOWSE
To pull or haul; as, to bowse upon a tack; to bowse away, i.e., to pull all together.
BOWSHOT
The distance traversed by an arrow shot from a bow.
BOWSPRIT
A large boom or spar, which projects over the stem of a ship orother vessel, to carry sail forward.
BOWSSEN
To drench; to soak; especially, to immerse (in water believedto have curative properties). [Obs.]There were many bowssening places, for curing of mad men. . . . Ifthere appeared small amendment he was bowssened again and again.Carew.
BOWSTRING
To strangle with a bowstring.
BOWTEL
See Boultel.
BOWWOW
An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark.-- a.
BOX
A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world.The common box (Buxus sempervirens) has two varieties, one of which,the dwaft box (B.suffruticosa), is much used for borders in gardens.The wood of the tree varieties, being very hard and smooth, isextensively used in the arts, as by turners, engravers, mathematicalinstrument makers, etc. Box elder, the ash-leaved maple (Negundoaceroides), of North America.-- Box holly, the butcher's broom (Russus aculeatus).-- Box thorn, a shrub (Lycium barbarum).-- Box tree, the tree variety of the common box.
BOX KITE
A kite, invented by Lawrence Hargrave, of Sydney, Australia,which consist of two light rectangular boxes, or cells open on twosides, and fastened together horizontally. Called also Hargrave, orcellular, kite.
BOX TAIL
In a flying machine, a tail or rudder, usually fixed,resembling a box kite.
BOX-IRON
A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within.
BOXBERRY
The wintergreern. (Gaultheria procumbens). [Local, U.S.]
BOXEN
Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus).[R.]The faded hue of sapless boxen leaves. Dryden.
BOXER
One who packs boxes.
BOXFISH
The trunkfish.
BOXHAUL
To put (a vessel) on the other tack by veering her short roundon her heel; -- so called from the circumstance of bracing the headyards abox (i. e., sharp aback, on the wind). Totten.
BOXHAULING
A method of going from one tack to another. See Boxhaul.
BOXING
The external case of thin material used to bring any member toa required form.
BOXING DAY
The first week day after Christmas, a legal holiday on whichChristmas boxes are given to postmen, errand boys, employees, etc.The night of this day is boxing night. [Eng.]
BOXKEEPER
An attendant at a theater who has charge of the boxes.
BOXTHORN
A plant of the genus Lycium, esp. Lycium barbarum.
BOXWOOD
The wood of the box (Buxus).
BOY
A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, ason.My only boy fell by the side of great Dundee. Sir W. Scott.
BOY SCOUT
Orig., a member of the "Boy Scouts," an organization of boysfounded in 1908, by Sir R. S. S. Baden-Powell, to promote goodcitizenship by creating in them a spirit of civic duty and ofusefulness to others, by stimulating their interest in wholesomemental, moral, industrial, and physical activities, etc. Hence, amember of any of the other similar organizations, which are nowworldwide. In "The Boy Scouts of America" the local councils aregenerally under a scout commissioner, under whose supervision arescout masters, each in charge of a troop of two or more patrols ofeight scouts each, who are of three classes, tenderfoot, second-classscout, and first-class scout.
BOYAU
A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication fromone siegework to another, to a magazine, etc.
BOYCOTT
To combine against (a landlord, tradesman, employer, or otherperson), to withhold social or business relations from him, and todeter others from holding such relations; to subject to a boycott.
BOYCOTTER
A participant in boycotting.
BOYCOTTISM
Methods of boycotters.
BOYDEKIN
A dagger; a bodkin. [Obs.]
BOYER
A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end. Sir W. Raleigh.
BOYHOOD
The state of being a boy; the time during which one is a boy.Hood.
BOYISH
Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy;childish; trifling; puerile.A boyish, odd conceit. Baillie.
BOYISHLY
In a boyish manner; like a boy.
BOYISHNESS
The manners or behavior of a boy.
BOYISM
See under Law.
BOZA
An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, madefrom millet seed and various astringent substances; also, anintoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water.[Written also bosa, bozah, bouza.]
BRABANTINE
Pertaining to Brabant, an ancient province of the Netherlands.
BRABBLE
To clamor; to contest noisily. [R.]
BRABBLEMENT
A brabble. [R.] Holland.
BRABBLER
A clamorous, quarrelsome, noisy fellow; a wrangler. [R] Shak.
BRACCATE
Furnished with feathers which conceal the feet.
BRACE
A piece of material used to transmit, or change the directionof, weight or pressure; any one of the pieces, in a frame or truss,which divide the structure into triangular parts. It may act as atie, or as a strut, and serves to prevent distortion of thestructure, and transverse strains in its members. A boiler brace is adiagonal stay, connecting the head with the shell.
BRACH
A bitch of the hound kind. Shak.
BRACHELYTRA
A group of beetles having short elytra, as the rove beetles.
BRACHIA
See Brachium.
BRACHIAL
Pertaining or belonging to the arm; as, the brachial artery;the brachial nerve.
BRACHIATA
A division of the Crinoidea, including those furnished withlong jointed arms. See Crinoidea.
BRACHIATE
Having branches in pairs, decussated, all nearly horizontal,and each pair at right angles with the next, as in the maple andlilac.
BRACHIOGANOID
One of the Brachioganoidei.
BRACHIOGANOIDEI
An order of ganoid fishes of which the bichir of Africa is aliving example. See Crossopterygii.
BRACHIOLARIA
(Zoรถl.) A peculiar early larval stage of certain starfishes,having a bilateral structure, and swimming by means of bands ofvibrating cilia.
BRACHIOPOD
One of the Brachiopoda, or its shell.
BRACHIOPODA
A class of Molluscoidea having a symmetrical bivalve shell,often attached by a fleshy peduncle.
BRACHIUM
The upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between theshoulder and the elbow.
BRACHMAN
See Brahman. [Obs.]
BRACHYCATALECTIC
A verse wanting two syllables at its termination.
BRACHYCERAL
Having short antennรฆ, as certain insects.
BRACHYDIAGONAL
Pertaining to the shorter diagonal, as of a rhombic prism.Brachydiagonal axis, the shorter lateral axis of an orthorhombiccrystal.
BRACHYDOME
A dome parallel to the shorter lateral axis. See Dome.
BRACHYGRAPHER
A writer in short hand; a stenographer.He asked the brachygrapher whether he wrote the notes of the sermon.Gayton.
BRACHYGRAPHY
Stenograhy. B. Jonson.
BRACHYLOGY
Conciseness of expression; brevity.
BRACHYPINACOID
A plane of an orthorhombic crystal which is parallel both tothe vertical axis and to the shorter lateral (brachydiagonal) axis.
BRACHYPTERA
A group of Coleoptera having short wings; the rove beetles.
BRACHYPTERES
A group of birds, including auks, divers, and penguins.
BRACHYPTEROUS
Having short wings.
BRACHYSTOCHRONE
A curve, in which a body, starting from a given point, anddescending solely by the force of gravity, will reach another givenpoint in a shorter time than it could by any other path. This curveof quickest descent, as it is sometimes called, is, in a vacuum, thesame as the cycloid.
BRACHYTYPOUS
Of a short form.
BRACHYURA
A group of decapod Crustacea, including the common crabs,characterized by a small and short abdomen, which is bent up beneaththe large cephalo-thorax. [Also spelt Brachyoura.] See Crab, andIllustration in Appendix.
BRACHYURAN
One of the Brachyura.
BRACING
Imparting strength or tone; strengthening; invigorating; as, abracing north wind.
BRACK
An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack orbreach; a flaw.Stain or brack in her sweet reputation. J. Fletcher.
BRACKEN
A brake or fern. Sir W. Scott.
BRACKET
An architectural member, plain or ornamental, projecting from awall or pier, to support weight falling outside of the same; also, adecorative feature seeming to discharge such an office.
BRACKETING
A series or group of brackets; brackets, collectively.
BRACKISH
Saltish, or salt in a moderate degree, as water in saline soil.Springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though they be.Byron.
BRACKISHNESS
The quality or state of being brackish, or somewhat salt.
BRACKY
Brackish. Drayton.
BRACTEA
A bract.
BRACTEAL
Having the nature or appearance of a bract.
BRACTEATE
Having a bract or bracts.
BRACTED
Furnished with bracts.
BRACTEOLATE
Furnished with bracteoles or bractlets.
BRACTEOLE
Same as Bractlet.
BRACTLESS
Destitute of bracts.
BRACTLET
A bract on the stalk of a single flower, which is itself on amain stalk that support several flowers. Gray.
BRAD
A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the topon one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flatcircular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishingnail, with a countersunk head.
BRAD AWL
A straight awl with chisel edge, used to make holes for brads,etc. Weale.
BRADOON
Same as Bridoon.
BRAE
A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill. [Scot.] Burns.
BRAG
To talk about one's self, or things pertaining to one's self,in a manner intended to excite admiration, envy, or wonder; to talkboastfully; to boast; -- often followed by of; as, to brag of one'sexploits, courage, or money, or of the great things one intends todo.Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance,not of ornament. Shak.
BRAGGARDISM
Boastfulness; act of bragging. Shak.
BRAGGART
A boaster.O, I could play the woman with mine eyes, And braggart with mytongue. Shak.
BRAGGER
One who brags; a boaster.
BRAGGET
A liquor made of ale and honey fermented, with spices, etc.[Obs.] B. Jonson.
BRAGGINGLY
Boastingly.
BRAGLESS
Without bragging. [R.] Shak.
BRAGLY
In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly. [Obs.] Spenser.
BRAHMA
The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods. Thetriad consists of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, andSiva, the Destroyer.
BRAHMANESS
A Brahmani.
BRAHMANI
Any Brahman woman. [Written also Brahmanee.]
BRAHMIN-ICAL
Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines andworship.
BRAHMO-SOMAJ
A modern reforming theistic sect among the Hindos. [Writtenalso Brahma-samaj.]
BRAHMOISM
The religious system of Brahmo-somaj. Balfour.
BRAID
To start; to awake. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BRAIL
A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing.
BRAILLE
A system of printing or writing for the blind in which thecharacters are represented by tangible points or dots. It wasinvented by Louis Braille, a French teacher of the blind.
BRAIN
The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervoussystem, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosedin the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals. It issimply the anterior termination of the spinal cord, and is developedfrom three embryonic vesicles, whose cavities are connected with thecentral canal of the cord; the cavities of the vesicles become thecentral cavities, or ventricles, and the walls thicken unequally andbecome the three segments, the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain.
BRAINED
Supplied with brains.If th' other two be brained like us. Shak.
BRAINISH
Hot-headed; furious. [R.] Shak.
BRAINLESS
Without understanding; silly; thougthless; witless.-- Brain"less*ness, n.
BRAINPAN
The bones which inclose the brain; the skull; the cranium.
BRAINSICK
Disordered in the understanding; giddy; thoughtless.-- Brain"sick*ness, n.
BRAINSICKLY
In a brainsick manner.
BRAINY
Having an active or vigorous mind. [Colloq.]
BRAISE
To stew or broil in a covered kettle or pan.A braising kettle has a deep cover which holds coals; consequentlythe cooking is done from above, as well as below. Mrs. Henderson.
BRAISER
A kettle or pan for braising.
BRAIT
A rough diamond.
BRAIZE
See Braise.
BRAKE
of Break. [Arhaic] Tennyson.
BRAKEMAN
A man in charge of a brake or brakes.
BRAKY
Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns;rough; thorny.In the woods and braky glens. W. Browne.
BRAMA
See Brahma.
BRAMAH PRESS
A hydrostatic press of immense power, invented by Joseph Bramahof London. See under Hydrostatic.
BRAMBLE
Any plant of the genus Rubus, including the raspberry andblackberry. Hence: Any rough, prickly shrub.The thorny brambles, and embracing bushes. Shak.
BRAMBLE BUSH
The bramble, or a collection of brambles growing together.He jumped into a bramble bush And scratched out both his eyes. MotherGoose.
BRAMBLE NET
A net to catch birds.
BRAMBLED
Overgrown with brambles.Forlorn she sits upon the brambled floor. T. Warton.
BRAMBLING
The European mountain finch (Fringilla montifringilla); --called also bramble finch and bramble.
BRAMBLY
Pertaining to, resembling, or full of, brambles. "In bramblywildernesses." Tennyson.
BRAME
Sharp passion; vexation. [Obs.]Heart-burning brame. Spenser.
BRAN
The European carrion crow.
BRAN-NEW
See Brand-new.
BRANCARD
A litter on which a person may be carried. [Obs.] Coigrave.
BRANCH
A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from aprincipal limb or bough of a tree or other plant.
BRANCH PILOT
A pilot who has a branch or commission, as from Trinity House,England, for special navigation.
BRANCHER
A young hawk when it begins to leave the nest and take to thebranches.
BRANCHERY
A system of branches.
BRANCHIA
A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained inwater, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have.
BRANCHIAL
Of or pertaining to branchiรฆ or gills. Branchial arches, thebony or cartilaginous arches which support the gills on each side ofthe throat of fishes and amphibians. See Illustration in Appendix.-- Branchial clefts, the openings between the branchial archesthrough which water passes.
BRANCHIATE
Furnished with branchiรฆ; as, branchiate segments.
BRANCHIFEROUS
Having gills; branchiate; as, branchiferous gastropods.
BRANCHINESS
Fullness of branches.
BRANCHING
Furnished with branches; shooting our branches; extending in abranch or branches.Shaded with branching palm. Milton.
BRANCHIOGASTROPODA
Those Gastropoda that breathe by branchiรฆ, including theProsobranchiata and Opisthobranchiata.
BRANCHIOMERISM
The state of being made up of branchiate segments. R.Wiedersheim.
BRANCHIOPOD
One of the Branchiopoda.
BRANCHIOPODA
An order of Entomostraca; -- so named from the feet ofbranchiopods having been supposed to perform the function of gills.It includes the fresh-water genera Branchipus, Apus, and Limnadia,and the genus Artemia found in salt lakes. It is also calledPhyllopoda. See Phyllopoda, Cladocera. It is sometimes used in abroader sense.
BRANCHIOSTEGAL
Pertaining to the membrane covering the gills of fishes.-- n. (Anat.)
BRANCHIOSTEGE
The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix.
BRANCHIOSTEGOUS
Branchiostegal.
BRANCHIOSTOMA
The lancelet. See Amphioxus.
BRANCHIURA
A group of Entomostraca, with suctorial mouths, includingspecies parasitic on fishes, as the carp lice (Argulus).
BRANCHLESS
Destitude of branches or shoots; without any valuable product;barren; naked.
BRANCHLET
A little branch; a twig.
BRANCHY
Full of branches; having wide-spreading branches; consisting ofbranches.Beneath thy branchy bowers of thickest gloom. J. Scott.
BRAND
Any minute fungus which produces a burnt appearance in plants.The brands are of many species and several genera of the orderPucciniรฆi.
BRAND GOOSE
A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) usually called inAmerica brant. See Brant.
BRAND SPORE
One of several spores growing in a series or chain, andproduced by one of the fungi called brand.
BRAND-NEW
Quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.
BRANDENBURG
A kind of decoration for the breast of a coat, sometimes only afrog with a loop, but in some military uniforms enlarged into a broadhorizontal stripe.
BRANDIED
Mingled with brandy; made stronger by the addition of brandy;flavored or treated with brandy; as, brandied peaches.
BRANDING IRON
An iron to brand with.
BRANDISH
A flourish, as with a weapon, whip, etc. "Brandishes of thefan." Tailer.
BRANDISHER
One who brandishes.
BRANDLE
To shake; to totter. [Obs.]
BRANDY
A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is alsogiven to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the UnitedStates to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe,it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain. Brandy fruit,fruit preserved in brandy and sugar.
BRANDYWINE
Brandy. [Obs.] Wiseman.
BRANGLE
A wrangle; a squabble; a noisy contest or dispute. [R.]A brangle between him and his neighbor. Swift.
BRANGLEMENT
Wrangle; brangle. [Obs.]
BRANGLER
A quarrelsome person.
BRANGLING
A quarrel. [R.] Whitlock.
BRANK
Buckwheat. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell.
BRANKURSINE
Bear's-breech, or Acanthus.
BRANLIN
A young salmon or parr, in the stage in which it has transverseblack bands, as if burned by a gridiron.
BRANNY
Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containingbran. Wiseman.
BRANSLE
A brawl or dance. [Obs.] Spenser.
BRANT
A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brentand brand goose. The name is also applied to other related species.
BRANT-FOX
A kind of fox found in Sweden (Vulpes alopex), smaller than thecommon fox (V. vulgaris), but probably a variety of it.
BRANTAIL
The European redstart; -- so called from the red color of itstail.
BRANULAR
Relating to the brain; cerebral. I. Taylor.
BRASEN
Same as Brazen.
BRASH
Hasty in temper; impetuous. Grose.
BRASHY
An artificer who works in brass. Franklin.
BRASQUE
A paste made by mixing powdered charcoal, coal, or coke withclay, molasses, tar, or other suitable substance. It is used forlining hearths, crucibles, etc. Called also steep.
BRASS
A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass.A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter isgenerally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, andBearing.
BRASS-VISAGED
Impudent; bold.
BRASSAGE
A sum formerly levied to pay the expense of coinage; -- nowcalled seigniorage.
BRASSART
Armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from theshoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16thcenturies, of many parts.
BRASSE
A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling aperch.
BRASSETS
See Brassart.
BRASSICA
A genus of plants embracing several species ad varietiesdiffering much in appearance and qualities: such as the commoncabbage (B. oleracea), broccoli, cauliflowers, etc.; the wild turnip(B. campestris); the common turnip (B. rapa); the rape of coleseed(B. napus), etc.
BRASSICACEOUS
Related to, or resembling, the cabbage, or plants of theCabbage family.
BRASSIERE
A form of woman's underwaist stiffened with whalebones, or thelike, and worn to support the breasts.
BRASSINESS
The state, conditions, or quality of being brassy. [Colloq.]
BRAST
To burst. [Obs.]And both his yรซn braste out of his face. Chaucer.Dreadfull furies which their chains have brast. Spenser.
BRAT
A thin bed of coal mixed with pyrites or carbonate of lime.
BRATSCHE
The tenor viola, or viola.
BRATTISHING
Carved openwork, as of a shrine, battlement, or parapet.
BRAUNITE
A native oxide of manganese, of dark brownish black color. Itwas named from a Mr. Braun of Gotha.
BRAVADE
Bravado. [Obs.] Fanshawe.
BRAVADO
Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.In spite of our host's bravado. Irving.
BRAVENESS
The quality of state or being brave.
BRAVING
A bravado; a boast.With so proud a strain Of threats and bravings. Chapman.
BRAVINGLY
In a defiant manner.
BRAVO
A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; aprofessional assassin or murderer.Safe from detection, seize the unwary prey. And stab, like bravoes,all who come this way. Churchill.
BRAVURA
A florid, brilliant style of music, written for effect, to showthe range and flexibility of a singer's voice, or the technical forceand skill of a performer; virtuoso music. Aria di bravura ( Etym:[It.], a florid air demanding brilliant execution.
BRAWL
A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult;as, a drunken brawl.His sports were hindered by the brawls. Shak.
BRAWLER
One that brawls; wrangler. Common brawler (Law), one whodisturbs a neighborhood by brawling (and is therefore indictable atcommon law as a nuisance). Wharton.
BRAWLINGLY
In a brawling manner.
BRAWNED
Brawny; strong; muscular. [Obs.] Spenser.
BRAWNER
A boor killed for the table.
BRAWNINESS
The quality or state of being brawny.
BRAWNY
Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong. "Brawnylimbs." W. Irving.
BRAY
To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine.Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar, . . . yet will not hisfoolishness depart from him. Prov. xxvii. 22.
BRAYER
An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing.
BRAYING
Making a harsh noise; blaring. "Braying trumpets." Shak.
BRAZE
To cover or ornament with brass. Chapman.
BRAZEN
To carry through impudently or shamelessly; as, to brazen thematter through.Sabina brazened it out before Mrs. Wygram, but inwardly she wasresolved to be a good deal more circumspect. W. Black.
BRAZEN-BROWED
Shamelessly impudent. Sir T. Browne.
BRAZENFACE
An impudent of shameless person. "Well said, brazenface; holdit out." Shak.
BRAZENFACED
Impudent; shameless.
BRAZENLY
In a bold, impudent manner.
BRAZENNESS
The quality or state of being brazen. Johnson.
BRAZIER
Same as Brasier.
BRAZIL NUT
An oily, three-sided nut, the seed of the Bertholletia excelsa;the cream nut.
BRAZILETTO
See Brazil wood.
BRAZILIAN
Of or pertaining to Brasil.-- n.
BRAZILIN
A substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, fromwhich it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which iswhite when pure. It is colored intensely red by alkalies. [Writtenalso brezilin.]
BREACH
A hernia; a rupture.
BREACHY
Apt to break fences or to break out of pasture; unruly; as,breachy cattle.
BREAD
To spread. [Obs.] Ray.
BREADBASKET
The stomach. [Humorous] S. Foote.
BREADCORN
Corn of grain of which bread is made, as wheat, rye, etc.
BREADED
Braided [Obs.] Spenser.
BREADEN
Made of bread. [R.]
BREADFRUIT
The tree itself, which is one of considerable size, with large,lobed leaves. Cloth is made from the bark, and the timber is used formany purposes. Called also breadfruit tree and bread tree.
BREADLESS
Without bread; destitude of food.Plump peers and breadless bards alike are dull. P. Whitehead.
BREADROOT
The root of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta), found nearthe Rocky Mountains. It is usually oval in form, and abounds infarinaceous matter, affording sweet and palatable food.
BREADSTUFF
Grain, flour, or meal of which bread is made.
BREADTHLESS
Without breadth.
BREADTHWAYS
Breadthwise. Whewell.
BREADTHWISE
In the direction of the breadth.
BREADWINNER
The member of a family whose labor supplies the food of thefamily; one who works for his living. H. Spencer.
BREAK
See Commutator.
BREAK-CIRCUIT
A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit.
BREAK-UP
Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts ormembers; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up ofthe government.
BREAKABLE
Capable of being broken.
BREAKAWAY
A wild rush of sheep, cattle, horses, or camels (especially atthe smell or the sight of water); a stampede.
BREAKBONE FEVER
See Dengue.
BREAKER
A small water cask. Totten.
BREAKFAST
To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal inthe day.First, sir, I read, and then I breakfast. Prior.
BREAKMAN
See Brakeman.
BREAKNECK
Producing danger of a broken neck; as, breakneck speed.
BREAKWATER
Any structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouthof a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection fromtheir violence.
BREAM
A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis,little valued as food. Several species are known.
BREAST
To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully;as, to breast the storm or waves.The court breasted the popular current by sustaining the demurrer.Wirt.To breast up a hedge, to cut the face of it on one side so as to laybare the principal upright stems of the plants.
BREAST-DEEP
Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast.See him breast-deep in earth, and famish him. Shak.
BREAST-HIGH
High as the breast.
BREASTBAND
A band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas,or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the manwho heaves the lead in sounding.
BREASTBEAM
The front transverse beam of a locomotive.
BREASTBONE
The bone of the breast; the sternum.
BREASTED
Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words,in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breastedcoat.The close minister is buttoned up, and the brave officer open-breasted, on these occasions. Spectator.
BREASTFAST
A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf,or to another vessel.
BREASTHEIGHT
The interior slope of a fortification, against which thegarnison lean in firing.
BREASTHOOK
A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed acrossthe stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows oneach side. Totten.
BREASTING
The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns. It is closelyadapted to the curve of the wheel through about a quarter of itscircumference, and prevents the escape of the water until it hasspent its force upon the wheel. See Breast wheel.
BREASTKNOT
A pin worn of the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; abrooch.
BREASTPIN
A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; abrooch.
BREASTPLATE
A part of the vestment of the high priest, worn upon the frontof the ephod. It was a double piece of richly embroidered stuff, aspan square, set with twelve precious stones, on which were engravedthe names of the twelve tribes of Israel. See Ephod.
BREASTRAIL
The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of abalcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc.
BREASTROPE
See Breastband.
BREASTSUMMER
A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, andsupporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a longlintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows. [Writtenalso brestsummer and bressummer.]
BREASTWHEEL
A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither sohigh as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, butgenerally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept incontact with it by the breasting. The water acts on the float boardspartly by impulse, partly by its weight.
BREASTWORK
A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, ofearth or other material.
BREATHABLE
Such as can be breathed.
BREATHABLENESS
State of being breathable.
BREATHE
To utter without vocality, as the nonvocal consonants.The same sound may be pronounces either breathed, voiced, orwhispered. H. Sweet.Breathed elements, being already voiceless, remain unchanged
BREATHFUL
Full of breath; full of odor; fragrant. [Obs.]
BREATHING
A mark to indicate aspiration or its absence. See Roughbreathing, Smooth breathing, below. Breathing place. (a) A pause."That cรฆsura, or breathing place, in the midst of the verse." Sir P.Sidney. (b) A vent.-- Breathing time, pause; relaxation. Bp. Hall.-- Breathing while, time sufficient for drawing breath; a shorttime. Shak.-- Rough breathing (spiritus asper) (. See 2d Asper, n.-- Smooth breathing (spiritus lenis), a mark (') indicating theabsence of the sound of h, as in 'ie`nai (ienai).
BREATHLESSLY
In a breathless manner.
BREATHLESSNESS
The state of being breathless or out of breath.
BRECCIA
A rock composed of angular fragments either of the same mineralor of different minerals, etc., united by a cement, and commonlypresenting a variety of colors. Bone breccia, a breccia containingbones, usually fragmentary.-- Coin breccia, a breccia containing coins.
BRECCIATED
Consisting of angular fragments cemented together; resemblingbreccia in appearance.The brecciated appearance of many specimens [of meteorites]. H. A.Newton.
BRED
imp. & p. p. of Breed. Bred out, degenerated. "The strain ofman's bred out into baboon and monkey." Shak.-- Bred to arms. See under Arms.-- Well bred. (a) Of a good family; having a good pedigree. "Agentleman well bred and of good name." Shak. [Obs., except as appliedto domestic animals.] (b) Well brought up, as shown in having goodmanners; cultivated; refined; polite.
BREDE
A braid. [R.]Half lapped in glowing gauze and golden brede. Tennyson.
BREECH
The external angle of knee timber, the inside of which iscalled the throat.
BREECH ACTION
The breech mechanism in breech-loading small arms and certainspecial guns, as automatic and machine guns; --used frequently inreferring to the method by which the movable barrels of breech-loading shotguns are locked, unlocked, or rotated to loadingposition.
BREECH SIGHT
A device attached to the breech of a firearm, to guide the eye,in conjunction with the front sight, in taking aim.
BREECH-LOADING
Receiving the charge at the breech instead of at the muzzle.
BREECHBLOCK
The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loadingfirearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge. It iswithdrawn for the insertion of a cartridge, and closed again beforethe gun is fired.
BREECHCLOTH
A cloth worn around the breech.
BREECHING
A strong rope rove through the cascabel of a cannon and securedto ringbolts in the ship's side, to limit the recoil of the gun whenit is discharged.
BREECHLOADER
A firearm which receives its load at the breech.For cavalry, the revolver and breechloader will supersede the saber.Rep. Sec. War (1860).
BREEDBATE
One who breeds or originates quarrels. [Obs.] "No telltale norno breedbate." Shak.
BREEDING
A fly of various species, of the family Tabanidรฆ, noted forbuzzing about animals, and tormenting them by sucking their blood; --called also horsefly, and gadfly. They are among the largest of two-winged or dipterous insects. The name is also given to differentspecies of botflies. [Written also breese and brize.]
BREEZE
Refuse coal, coal ashes, and cinders, used in the burning ofbricks.
BREEZELESS
Motionless; destitute of breezes.A stagnant, breezeless air becalms my soul. Shenstone.
BREEZINESS
State of being breezy.
BREGMA
The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures ofthe skull.
BREGMATIC
Pertaining to the bregma.
BREHON
An ancient Irish or Scotch judge. Brehon laws, the ancientIrish laws, -- unwritten, like the common law of England. They wereabolished by statute of Edward III.
BRELAN CARRE
In French games, a double pair royal.
BRELAN FAVORI
In French games, a pair royal composed of 2 cards in the handand the card turned.
BRELOQUE
A seal or charm for a watch chain. "His chains and breloques."Thackeray.
BREME
To burn. [Obs.] Chaucer.Consuming fire brent his shearing house or stall. W. Browne.
BREN
Bran. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BRENNAGE
A tribute which tenants paid to their lord, in lieu of bran,which they were obliged to furnish for his hounds.
BRENNINGLY
Burningly; ardently. [Obs.]
BRENT
of Bren. Burnt. [Obs.]
BREQUET CHAIN
A watch-guard.
BRERE
A brier. [Archaic] Chaucer.
BREST
for Bursteth. [Obs.]
BRESTE
To burst. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BRESTSUMMER
See Breastsummer.
BRET
See Birt.
BRETFUL
Brimful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BRETHREN
pl. of Brother.
BRETON
Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France.-- n.
BRETT
Same as Britzska.
BRETTICE
The wooden boarding used in supporting the roofs and walls ofcoal mines. See Brattice.
BRETWALDA
The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxonchieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in theirwarfare against the British tribes. Brande & C.
BRETZEL
See Pretzel.
BREVE
A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves orfour minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It wasformerly of a square figure (as thus: Moore.
BREVET
A commission giving an officer higher rank than that for whichhe receives pay; an honorary promotion of an officer.
BREVETCY
The rank or condition of a brevet officer.
BREVIATE
To abbreviate. [Obs.]
BREVIATURE
An abbreviature; an abbreviation. [Obs.] Johnson.
BREVIER
A size of type between bourgeous and minion.
BREVILOQUENCE
A brief and pertinent mode of speaking. [R.]
BREVIPED
Having short legs.-- n.
BREVIPEN
A brevipennate bird.
BREVIPENNATE
Short-winged; -- applied to birds which can not fly, owing totheir short wings, as the ostrich, cassowary, and emu.
BREW
The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed. Bacon.
BREWAGE
Malt liquor; drink brewed. "Some well-spiced brewage." Milton.A rich brewage, made of the best Spanish wine. Macaulay.
BREWER
One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors.
BREWERY
A brewhouse; the building and apparatus where brewing iscarried on.
BREWHOUSE
A house or building appropriated to brewing; a brewery.
BREWING
A gathering or forming of a storm or squall, indicated bythick, dark clouds.
BREWSTERITE
A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystalswith pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, baryta, andstrontia.
BREZILIN
See Brazilin.
BRIAR
Same as Brier.
BRIAREAN
Pertaining to, or resembling, Briareus, a giant fabled to havea hundred hands; hence, hundred-handed or many-handed.
BRIBABLE
Capable of being bribed.A more bribable class of electors. S. Edwards.
BRIBELESS
Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes.From thence to heaven's bribeless hall. Sir W. Raleigh.
BRIBERY
Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art,considered collectively. A piece of bric-a-brac, any curious orantique article of virtu, as a piece of antiquated furniture or metalwork, or an odd knickknack.
BRICKBAT
A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4. Bacon.
BRICKFIELDER
Orig., at Sydney, a cold and violent south or southwest wind,rising suddenly, and regularly preceded by a hot wind from the north;-- now usually called southerly buster. It blew across theBrickfields, formerly so called, a district of Sydney, and carriedclouds of dust into the city.
BRICKKILN
A kiln, or furnace, in which bricks are baked or burnt; or apile of green bricks, laid loose, with arches underneath to receivethe wood or fuel for burning them.
BRICKLAYER
One whose pccupation is to build with bricks. Bricklayer'sitch. See under Itch.
BRICKLAYING
The art of building with bricks, or of uniting them by cementor mortar into various forms; the act or occupation of laying bricks.
BRICKLE
Brittle; easily broken. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser.As stubborn steel excels the brickle glass. Turbervile.
BRICKLENESS
Brittleness. [Obs.]
BRICKMAKER
One whose occupation is to make bricks.-- Brick"mak*ing, n.
BRICKY
Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brickdust. [R.] Spenser.
BRICKYARD
A place where bricks are made, especially an inclosed place.
BRICOLE
A kind of traces with hooks and rings, with which men drag andmaneuver guns where horses can not be used.
BRID
A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BRIDAL
Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridalornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber.
BRIDALTY
Celebration of the nuptial feast. [Obs.] "In honor of thisbridalty." B. Jonson.
BRIDE
To make a bride of. [Obs.]
BRIDE-ALE
A rustic wedding feast; a bridal. See Ale.The man that 's bid to bride-ale, if he ha' cake, And drink enough,he need not fear his stake. B. Jonson.
BRIDEBED
The marriage bed. [Poetic]
BRIDECAKE
Rich or highly ornamented cake, to be distributed to the guestsat a wedding, or sent to friends after the wedding.
BRIDECHAMBER
The nuptial appartment. Matt. ix. 15.
BRIDEGROOM
A man newly married, or just about to be married.
BRIDEKNOT
A knot of ribbons worn by a guest at a wedding; a weddingfavor. [Obs.]
BRIDESMAID
A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding.
BRIDESMAN
A male friend who attends upon a bridegroom and bride at theirmarriage; the "best man." Sir W. Scott.
BRIDESTAKE
A stake or post set in the ground, for guests at a wedding todance round.Divide the broad bridecake Round about the bridestake. B. Jonson.
BRIDEWELL
A house of correction for the confinement of disorderlypersons; -- so called from a hospital built in 1553 near St. Bride's(or Bridget's) well, in London, which was subsequently a penalworkhouse.
BRIDGE
The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of aviolin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit theirvibrations to the body of the instrument.
BRIDGEBOARD
A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps ofwooden stairs are fastened.
BRIDGEHEAD
A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearestthe enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge,and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tรชte-de-pont.
BRIDGELESS
Having no bridge; not bridged.
BRIDGEPOT
The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle. Knight.
BRIDGETREE
The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in agrinding mill. Knight.
BRIDGEY
Full of bridges. [R.] Sherwood.
BRIDLE
The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in placethe timbler, sear, etc.
BRIDLE IRON
A strong flat bar of iron, so bent as to support, as in astirrup, one end of a floor timber, etc., where no sufficient bearingcan be had; -- called also stirrup and hanger.
BRIDLER
One who bridles; one who restrains and governs, as with abridle. Milton.
BRIDOON
The snaffle and rein of a military bridle, which actsindependently of the bit, at the pleasure of the rider. It is used inconnection with a curb bit, which has its own rein. Campbell.
BRIE CHEESE
A kind of soft French cream cheese; -- so called from thedistrict in France where it is made; --called also fromage de Brie.
BRIEF
An abridgment or concise statement of a client's case, made outfor the instruction of counsel in a trial at law. This word isapplied also to a statement of the heads or points of a law argument.It was not without some reference to it that I perused many a brief.Sir J. Stephen.
BRIEFLESS
Having no brief; without clients; as, a briefless barrister.
BRIEFLY
Concisely; in few words.
BRIEFNESS
The quality of being brief; brevity; conciseness in discourseor writing.
BRIERED
Set with briers. Chatterton.
BRIERY
Full of briers; thorny.
BRIG
A bridge. [Scot.] Burns.
BRIGADE
A body of troops, whether cavalry, artillery, infantry, ormixed, consisting of two or more regiments, under the command of abrigadier general.
BRIGADIER GENERAL
An officer in rank next above a colonel, and below a majorgeneral. He commands a brigade, and is sometimes called, by ashortening of his title, simple a brigadier.
BRIGANDAGE
Life and practice of brigands; highway robbery; plunder.
BRIGANDINE
A coast of armor for the body, consisting of scales or plates,sometimes overlapping each other, generally of metal, and sewed tolinen or other material. It was worn in the Middle Ages. [Writtenalso brigantine.] Jer. xlvi. 4.Then put on all thy gorgeous arms, thy helmet, And brigandine ofbrass. Milton.
BRIGANDISH
Like a brigand or freebooter; robberlike.
BRIGANDISM
Brigandage.
BRIGGE
A bridge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BRIGHT
See Brite, v. i.
BRIGHT-HARNESSED
Having glittering armor. [Poetic] Milton.
BRIGHTEN
To grow bright, or more bright; to become less dark or gloomy;to clear up; to become bright or cheerful.And night shall brighten into day. N. Cotton.And, all his prospects brightening to the last, His heaven commencesere world be past. Goldsmith.
BRIGHTNESS
An affection of the kidneys, usually inflammatory in character,and distinguished by the occurrence of albumin and renal casts in theurine. Several varieties of Bright's disease are now recognized,differing in the part of the kidney involved, and in the intensityand course of the morbid process.
BRIGHTSOME
Bright; clear; luminous; brilliant. [R.] Marlowe.
BRIGOSE
Contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Puller.
BRIGUE
A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel.[Obs.] Chesterfield.
BRIKE
A breach; ruin; downfall; peril. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BRILL
A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis), much esteemed inEngland for food; -- called also bret, pearl, prill. See Bret.
BRILLANTE
In a gay, showy, and sparkling style.
BRILLIANCE
Brilliancy. Tennyson.
BRILLIANCY
The quality of being brilliant; splendor; glitter; greatbrighness, whether in a literal or figurative sense.With many readers brilliancy of style passes for affluence ofthought. Longfellow.
BRILLIANT
The small size of type used in England printing.
BRILLIANTLY
In a brilliant manner.
BRILLIANTNESS
Brilliancy; splendor; glitter.
BRILLS
The hair on the eyelids of a horse. Bailey.
BRIM
To be full to the brim. "The brimming stream." Milton. To brimover (literally or figuratively), to be so full that some of thecontents flows over the brim; as, cup brimming over with wine; a manbrimming over with fun.
BRIMFUL
Full to the brim; completely full; ready to overflow. "Herbrimful eyes." Dryden.
BRIMLESS
Having no brim; as, brimless caps.
BRIMMER
A brimful bowl; a bumper.
BRIMMING
Full to the brim; overflowing.
BRIMSTONE
Sulphur; See Sulphur.
BRIMSTONY
Containing or resembling brimstone; sulphurous. B. Jonson.
BRIN
One of the radiating sticks of a fan. The outermost are largerand longer, and are called panaches. Knight.
BRINDED
Of a gray or tawny color with streaks of darker hue; streaked;brindled. "Three brinded cows," Dryden. "The brinded cat." Shak.
BRINDLE
Brindled.
BRINDLED
Having dark streaks or spots on a gray or tawny ground;brinded. "With a brindled lion played." Churchill.
BRINGER
One who brings.Yet the first bringer of unwelcome news Hath but a losing office.Shak.Bringer in, one who, or that which, introduces.
BRININESS
The state or quality of being briny; saltness; brinishness.
BRINISH
Like brine; somewhat salt; saltish. "Brinish tears." Shak.
BRINISHNESS
State or quality of being brinish.
BRINJAREE
A rough-haired East Indian variety of the greyhound.
BRINK
The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of aprecipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border;as, the brink of a chasm. Also Fig. "The brink of vice." Bp. Porteus."The brink of ruin." Burke.The plashy brink of weedy lake. Bryant.
BRINY
Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of thenature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood.
BRIOLETTE
An oval or pearshaped diamond having its entire surface cut intriangular facets.
BRIONY
See Bryony. Tennyson.
BRISK
To make or become lively; to enliven; to animate; to take, orcause to take, an erect or bold attitude; -- usually with up.
BRISKET
That part of the breast of an animal which extends from thefore legs back beneath the ribs; also applied to the fore part of ahorse, from the shoulders to the bottom of the chest.
BRISKLY
In a brisk manner; nimbly.
BRISKNESS
Liveliness; vigor in action; quickness; gayety; vivacity;effervescence.
BRISTLE
A stiff, sharp, roundish hair. Gray.
BRISTLE-POINTED
Terminating in a very fine, sharp point, as some leaves.
BRISTLE-SHAPED
Resembling a bristle in form; as, a bristle-shaped leaf.
BRISTLETAIL
An insect of the genera Lepisma, Campodea, etc., belonging tothe Thysanura.
BRISTLINESS
The quality or state of having bristles.
BRISTLY
THick set with bristles, or with hairs resembling bristles;rough.The leaves of the black mulberry are somewhat bristly. Bacon.
BRISTOL
A seaport city in the west of England. Bristol board, a kind offine pasteboard, made with a smooth but usually unglazed surface.-- Bristol brick, a brick of siliceous matter used for polishingcultery; -- originally manufactured at Bristol.-- Bristol stone, rock crystal, or brilliant crystals of quartz,found in the mountain limestone near Bristol, and used in makingornaments, vases, etc. When polished, it is called Bristol diamond.
BRISURE
Any part of a rampart or parapet which deviates from thegeneral direction.
BRITANNIA
A white-metal alloy of tin, antimony, bismuth, copper, etc. Itsomewhat resembles silver, and isused for table ware. Called alsoBritannia metal.
BRITANNIC
Of or pertaining to Great Britain; British; as, her BritannicMajesty.
BRITICISM
A word, phrase, or idiom peculiar to Great Britain; any mannerof using a word or words that is peculiar to Great Britain.
BRITISH
Of or pertaining to Great Britain or to its inhabitants; --sometimes restrict to the original inhabitants. British gum, abrownish substance, very soluble in cold water, formed by heating drystarch at a temperature of about 600ยฐ Fahr. It corresponds, in itsproperties, to dextrin, and is used, in solution, as a substitute forgum in stiffering goods.-- British lion, the national emblem of Great Britain.-- British seas, the four seas which surround Great Britain.
BRITISHER
An Englishman; a subject or inhabitant of Great Britain, esp.one in the British military or naval service. [Now used jocosely]
BRITON
British. [Obs.] Spenser.-- n.
BRITTLE
Easily broken; apt to break; fragile; not tough or tenacious.Farewell, thou pretty, brittle piece Of fine-cut crystal. Cotton.Brittle silver ore, the mineral stephanite.
BRITTLE STAR
Any species of ophiuran starfishes. See Ophiuroidea.
BRITTLELY
In a brittle manner. Sherwood.
BRITTLENESS
Aptness to break; fragility.
BRITZSKA
A long carriage, with a calash top, so constructed as to givespace for reclining at night, when used on a journey.
BRIZE
The breeze fly. See Breeze. Shak.
BROACH
A broad chisel for stonecutting.
BROAD
Characterized by breadth. See Breadth.
BROAD CHURCH
A portion of the Church of England, consisting of persons whoclaim to hold a position, in respect to doctrine and fellowship,intermediate between the High Church party and the Low Church, orevangelical, party. The term has been applied to otherbodies of menholding liberal or comprehensive views of Christian doctrine andfellowship.Side by side with these various shades of High and Low Church,another party of a different character has always existed in theChurch of England. It is called by different names: Moderate,Catholic, or Broad Church, by its friends; Latitudinarian orIndifferent, by its enemies. Its distinctive character is the desireof comprehension. Its watch words are charity and toleration.Conybeare.
BROAD GAUGE
A wider distance between the rails than the "standard" gauge offour feet eight inches and a half. See Gauge.
BROAD SEAL
The great seal of England; the public seal of a country orstate.
BROAD-BRIMMED
Having a broad brim.A broad-brimmed flat silver plate. Tatler.
BROAD-HORNED
Having horns spreading widely.
BROADBILL
A wild duck (Aythya, or Fuligula, marila), which appears inlarge numbers on the eastern coast of the United States, in autumn; -- called also bluebill, blackhead, raft duck, and scaup duck. SeeScaup duck.
BROADCAST
A casting or throwing seed in all directions, as from the handin sowing.
BROADCLOTH
A fine smooth-faced woolen cloth for men's garments, usually ofdouble width (i.e., a yard and a half); -- so called in distinctionfrom woolens three quarters of a yard wide.
BROADEN
To grow broad; to become broader or wider.The broadening sun appears. Wordsworth.
BROADISH
Rather broad; moderately broad.
BROADLEAF
A tree (Terminalia latifolia) of Jamaica, the wood of which isused for boards, scantling, shingles, etc; -- sometimes called thealmond tree, from the shape of its fruit.
BROADLY
In a broad manner.
BROADMOUTH
One of the Eurylaimidรฆ, a family of East Indian passerinebirds.
BROADNESS
The condition or quality of being broad; breadth; coarseness;grossness.
BROADPIECE
An old English gold coin, broader than a guinea, as a Carolusor Jacobus.
BROADSEAL
To stamp with the broad seal; to make sure; to guarantee orwarrant. [Obs.]Thy presence broadseals our delights for pure. B. Jonson.
BROADSIDE
The side of a ship above the water line, from the bow to thequarter.
BROADSPREAD
Widespread.
BROADSPREADING
Spreading widely.
BROADSWORD
A sword with a broad blade and a cutting edge; a claymore.I heard the broadsword's deadly clang. Sir W. Scott.
BROADWISE
Breadthwise. [Archaic]
BROB
A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end ofan abutting timber to prevent its slipping.
BROBDINGNAGIAN
Colossal' of extraordinary height; gigantic.-- n.
BROCADE
Silk stuff, woven with gold and silver threads, or ornamentedwith raised flowers, foliage, etc.; -- also applied to other stuffsthus wrought and enriched.A gala suit of faded brocade. W. Irving.
BROCAGE
See Brokkerage.
BROCARD
An elementary principle or maximum; a short, proverbial rule,in law, ethics, or metaphysics.The legal brocard, "Falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus," is a rule notmore applicable to other witness than to consciousness. Sir W.Hamilton.
BROCATELLO
Same as Brocatel.
BROCCOLI
A plant of the Cabbage species (Brassica oleracea) of manyvarieties, resembling the cauliflower. The "curd," or flowering head,is the part used for food.
BROCHANTITE
A basic sulphate of copper, occurring in emerald-greencrystals.
BROCHE
Woven with a figure; as, brochรฉ goods.
BROCHETTE
A small spit or skewer.
BROCHURE
A printed and stitched book containing only a few leaves; apamphlet.
BROCK
A badger.Or with pretense of chasing thence the brock. B. Jonson.
BROCKET
A male red deer two years old; -- sometimes called brock.
BROCKISH
Beastly; brutal. [Obs.] Bale.
BRODEKIN
A buskin or half-boot. [Written also brodequin.] [Obs.]
BROG
A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle,or a small ship stick.
BROGAN
A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue.
BROGGLE
To sniggle, or fish with a brog. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
BROGUES
Breeches. [Obs.] Shenstone.
BROID
To braid. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BROIDER
To embroider. [Archaic]They shall make a broidered coat. Ex. xxviii. 4.
BROIDERER
One who embroiders. [Archaic]
BROIDERY
Embroidery. [Archaic]The golden broidery tender Milkah wove. Tickell.
BROIL
A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention;discord, either between individuals or in the state.I will own that there is a haughtiness and fierceness in human naturewhich will which will cause innumerable broils, place men in whatsituation you please. Burke.
BROILER
One who excites broils; one who engages in or promotes noisyquarrels.What doth he but turn broiler, . . . make new libels against thechurch Hammond.
BROILING
Excessively hot; as, a broiling sun.-- n.
BROKAGE
See Brokerage.
BROKE
imp. & p. p. of Break.
BROKEN BREAST
Abscess of the mammary gland.
BROKEN WIND
The heaves.
BROKEN-BACKED
Hogged; so weakened in the frame as to droop at each end; --said of a ship. Totten.
BROKEN-BELLIED
Having a ruptured belly. [R.]
BROKEN-HEARTED
Having the spirits depressed or crushed by grief or despair.She left her husband almost broken-hearted. Macaulay.
BROKEN-WINDED
Having short breath or disordered respiration, as a horse.
BROKENLY
In a broken, interrupted manner; in a broken state; in brokenlanguage.The pagans worship God . . . as it were brokenly and by piecemeal.Cudworth.
BROKER
An agent employed to effect bargains and contracts, as amiddleman or negotiator, between other persons, for a compensationcommonly called brokerage. He takes no possession, as broker, of thesubject matter of the negotiation. He generally contracts in thenames of those who employ him, and not in his own. Story.
BROKERLY
Mean; servile. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
BROKERY
The business of a broker. [Obs.]And with extorting, cozening, forfeiting, And tricks belonging untobrokery. Marlowe.
BROKING
Of or pertaining to a broker or brokers, or to brokerage.[Obs.]Redeem from broking pawn the blemished crown. Shak.
BROMA
Aliment; food. Dunglison.
BROMAL
An oily, colorless fluid, CBr
BROMALIN
A colorless or white crystalline compound, (CH2)6N4C2H5Br, usedas a sedative in epilepsy.
BROMANIL
A substance analogous to chloranil but containing bromine inplace of chlorine.
BROMATE
A salt of bromic acid.
BROMATOLOGIST
One versed in the science of foods.
BROMATOLOGY
The science of aliments. Dunglison.
BROME
See Bromine.
BROME GRASS
A genus (Bromus) of grasses, one species of which is the chessor cheat.
BROMELIACEOUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, a family of endogenous and mostlyepiphytic or saxicolous plants of which the genera Tillandsia andBillbergia are examples. The pineapple, though terrestrial, is alsoof this family.
BROMIC
Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of thosecompounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, orthe next to its highest; as, bromic acid.
BROMIDE
A compound of bromine with a positive radical.
BROMIDIOM
A conventional comment or saying, such as those characteristicof bromides. [Slang]
BROMINATE
See Bromate, v. t.
BROMINE
One of the elements, related in its chemical qualities tochlorine and iodine. Atomic weight 79.8. Symbol Br. It is a deepreddish brown liquid of a very disagreeable odor, emitting a brownishvapor at the ordinary temperature. In combination it is found inminute quantities in sea water, and in many saline springs. It occursalso in the mineral bromyrite.
BROMISM
A diseased condition produced by the excessive use of bromineor one of its compounds. It is characterized by mental dullness andmuscular weakness.
BROMIZE
To prepare or treat with bromine; as, to bromize a silveredplate.
BROMLIFE
A carbonate of baryta and lime, intermediate between witheriteand strontianite; -- called also alstonite.
BROMOFORM
A colorless liquid, CHBr3, having an agreeable odor andsweetish taste. It is produced by the simultaneous action of bromineand caustic potash upon wood spirit, alcohol, or acetone, as also bycertain other reactions. In composition it is the same as chloroform,with the substitution of bromine for chlorine. It is somewhat similarto chloroform in its effects. Watts.
BROMOGELATIN
Designating or pertaining to, a process of preparing dry plateswith an emulsion of bromides and silver nitrate in gelatin.
BROMOIODISM
Poisoning induced by large doses of bromine and iodine or oftheir compounds.
BROMOIODIZED
Treated with bromides and iodides.
BROMOL
A crystalline substance (chemically, tribromophenol,C6H2Br3OH), used as an antiseptic and disinfectant.
BROMPICRIN
A pungent colorless explosive liquid, CNO2Br3, analogous to andresembling chlorpicrin. [Spelt also brompikrin.]
BROMURET
See Bromide. [Obs.]
BROMYRITE
Silver bromide, a rare mineral; -- called also bromargyrite.
BRONCHI
See Bronchus.
BRONCHIA
The bronchial tubes which arise from the branching of thetrachea, esp. the subdivision of the bronchi. Dunglison.
BRONCHIAL
Belonging to the bronchi and their ramifications in the lungs.Bronchial arteries, branches of the descending aorta, accompanyingthe bronchia in all their ramifications.-- Bronchial cells, the air cells terminating the bronchia.-- Bronchial glands, glands whose functions are unknown, seatedalong the bronchia.-- Bronchial membrane, the mucous membrane lining the bronchia.-- Bronchial tube, the bronchi, or the bronchia.
BRONCHIC
Bronchial.
BRONCHIOLE
A minute bronchial tube.
BRONCHITIC
Of or pertaining to bronchitis; as, bronchitic inflammation.
BRONCHITIS
Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the bronchial tubes or anypart of them.
BRONCHO
A native or a Mexican horse of small size. [Western U.S.]
BRONCHO-PNEUMONIA
Inflammation of the bronchi and lungs; catarrhal pneumonia.
BRONCHOCELE
See Goiter.
BRONCHOPHONY
A modification of the voice sounds, by which they areintensified and heightened in pitch; -- observed in auscultation ofthe chest in certain cases of intro-thoracic disease.
BRONCHOTOME
An instrument for cutting into the bronchial tubes.
BRONCHOTOMY
An incision into the windpipe or larynx, including theoperations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy.
BRONCHUS
One of the subdivisions of the trachea or windpipe; esp. one ofthe two primary divisions.
BRONCO
Same as Broncho.
BROND
A sword. [Obs.]
BRONTOGRAPH
An aรซrolite. [R.]
BRONTOLOGY
A treatise upon thunder.
BRONTOMETER
An instrument for noting or recording phenomena attendant onthunderstorms.
BRONTOSAURUS
A genus of American jurassic dinosaurs. A length of sixty feetis believed to have been attained by these reptiles.
BRONTOTHERIUM
A genus of large extinct mammals from the miocene strata ofwestern North America. They were allied to the rhinoceros, but theskull bears a pair of powerful horn cores in front of the orbits, andthe fore feet were four-toed. See Illustration in Appendix.
BRONTOZOUM
An extinct animal of large size, known from its three-toedfootprints in Mesozoic sandstone.
BRONZE STEEL
A hard tough alloy of tin, copper, and iron, which can be usedfor guns.
BRONZEWING
An Australian pigeon of the genus Phaps, of several species; --so called from its bronze plumage.
BRONZINE
A metal so prepared as to have the appearance of bronze.-- a.
BRONZIST
One who makes, imitates, collects, or deals in, bronzes.
BRONZITE
A variety of enstatite, often having a bronzelike luster. It isa silicate of magnesia and iron, of the pyroxene family.
BRONZY
Like bronze.
BROOCH
A painting all of one color, as a sepia painting, or an Indiapainting.
BROOD
Heavy waste in tin and copper ores. To sit on brood, to ponder.[Poetic] Shak.
BROODY
Inclined to brood. Ray.
BROOK
A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek.The Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks ofwater. Deut. viii. 7.Empires itself, as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters.Shak.
BROOK MINT
See Water mint.
BROOKITE
A mineral consisting of titanic oxide, and hence identical withrutile and octahedrite in composition, but crystallizing in theorthorhombic system.
BROOKLET
A small brook.
BROOKLIME
A plant (Veronica Beccabunga), with flowers, usually blue, inaxillary racemes. The American species is V. Americana. [Formerlywritten broklempe or broklympe.]
BROOKSIDE
The bank of a brook.
BROOKWEED
A small white-flowered herb (Samolus Valerandi) found usuallyin wet places; water pimpernel.
BROOM
A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep withwhen bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe,which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches,mintue leaves, and large yellow flowers.No gypsy cowered o'er fires of furze and broom. Wordsworth.
BROOM CORN
A variety of Sorghum vulgare, having a joined stem, like maize,rising to the height of eight or ten feet, and bearing its seeds on apanicle with long branches, of which brooms are made.
BROOM RAPE
A genus (Orobanche) of parasitic plants of Europe and Asia.They are destitute of chlorophyll, have scales instead of leaves, andspiked flowers, and grow attached to the roots of other plants, asfurze, clover, flax, wild carrot, etc. The name is sometimes appliedto other plants related to this genus, as Aphyllon uniflorumand A.Ludovicianum.
BROOMSTAFF
A broomstick. [Obs.] Shak.
BROOMSTICK
A stick used as a handle of a broom.
BROOMY
Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resemblingbroom or a broom.If land grow mossy or broomy. Mortimer.
BROSE
Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp.oatmeal), and stirring it. It is called beef brose, water brose,etc., according to the name of the liquid (beef broth, hot water,etc.) used. [Scot.]
BROTEL
Brittle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BROTELNESS
Brittleness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BROTH
Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, asbarley or rice) has been boiled; thin or simple soup.I am sure by your unprejudiced discourses that you love broth betterthan soup. Addison.
BROTHEL
A house of lewdness or ill fame; a house frequented byprostitutes; a bawdyhouse.
BROTHELER
One who frequents brothels.
BROTHELRY
Lewdness; obscenity; a brothel. B. Jonson.
BROTHER
To make a brother of; to call or treat as a brother; to admitto a brotherhood. Sir W. Scott.
BROTHER GERMAN
A brother by both the father's and mother's side, incontradistinction to a uterine brother, one by the mother only.Bouvier.
BROTHER-IN-LAW
The brother of one's husband or wife; also, the husband ofone's sister; sometimes, the husband of one's wife's sister.
BROTHERLINESS
The state or quality of being brotherly.
BROTHERLY
Of or pertaining to brothers; such as is natural for brothers;becoming to brothers; kind; affectionate; as, brotherly love.
BROUDED
Braided; broidered. [Obs.]Alle his clothes brouded up and down. Chaucer.
BROUGHAM
A light, close carriage, with seats inside for two or four, andthe fore wheels so arranged as to turn short.
BROW
To bound to limit; to be at, or form, the edge of. [R.]Tending my flocks hard by i' the hilly crofts That brow this bottomglade. Milton.
BROWBEAT
To depress or bear down with haughty, stern looks, or witharrogant speech and dogmatic assertions; to abash or disconcert byimpudent or abusive words or looks; to bully; as, to browbeatwitnesses.My grandfather was not a man to be browbeaten. W. Irving.
BROWBEATING
The act of bearing down, abashing, or disconcerting, with sternlooks, suspercilious manners, or confident assertions.The imperious browbeating and scorn of great men. L'Estrange.
BROWBOUND
Crowned; having the head encircled as with a diadem. Shak.
BROWDYNG
Embroidery. [Obs.]Of goldsmithrye, of browdying, and of steel. Chaucer.
BROWED
Having (such) a brow; -- used in composition; as, dark-browed,stern-browed.
BROWLESS
Without shame. L. Addison.
BROWN
Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red oryellow.Cheeks brown as the oak leaves. Longfellow.Brown Bess, the old regulation flintlock smoothbore musket, withbronzed barrel, formerly used in the British army.-- Brown bread (a) Dark colored bread; esp. a kind made of unboltedwheat flour, sometimes called in the United States Graham bread. "Hewould mouth with a beggar though she smelt brown bread and garlic."Shak. (b) Dark colored bread made of rye meal and Indian meal, or ofwheat and rye or Indian; rye and Indian bread. [U.S.] -- Brown coal,wood coal. See Lignite.-- Brown hematite or Brown iron ore (Min.), the hydrous iron oxide,limonite, which has a brown streak. See Limonite.-- Brown holland. See under Holland.-- Brown paper, dark colored paper, esp. coarse wrapping paper, madeof unbleached materials.-- Brown spar (Min.), a ferruginous variety of dolomite, in partidentical with ankerite.-- Brown stone. See Brownstone.-- Brown stout, a strong kind of proter or malt liquor.-- Brown study, a state of mental abstraction or serious reverie. W.Irving.
BROWN BILL
A bill or halberd of the 16th and 17th centuries. See 4th Bill.Many time, but for a sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brownbill. Shak.
BROWN RACE
The Malay or Polynesian race; -- loosely so called.
BROWN THRUSH
A common American singing bird (Harporhynchus rufus), allied tothe mocking bird; -- also called brown thrasher.
BROWNBACK
The dowitcher or red-breasted snipe. See Dowitcher.
BROWNIAN
Pertaining to Dr. Robert Brown, who first demonstrated (about1827) the commonness of the motion described below. Brownianmovement, the peculiar, rapid, vibratory movement exhibited by themicroscopic particles of substances when suspended in water or otherfluids.
BROWNIE
An imaginary good-natured spirit, who was supposed often toperform important services around the house by night, such asthrashing, churning, sweeping. [Scot.]
BROWNING
A smooth coat of brown mortar, usually the second coat, and thepreparation for the finishing coat of plaster.
BROWNISH
Somewhat brown.
BROWNISM
The views or teachings of Robert Brown of the Brownists.Milton.
BROWNIST
A follower of Robert Brown, of England, in the 16th century,who taught that every church is complete and independent in itselfwhen organized, and consists of members meeting in one place, havingfull power to elect and depose its officers.
BROWNNESS
The quality or state of being brown.Now like I brown (O lovely brown thy hair); Only in brownness beautydwelleth there. Drayton.
BROWNSTONE
A dark variety of sandstone, much used for building purposes.
BROWNWORT
A species of figwort or Scrophularia (S. vernalis), and otherspecies of the same genus, mostly perennials with inconspicuouscoarse flowers.
BROWNY
Brown or, somewhat brown. "Browny locks." Shak.
BROWPOST
A beam that goes across a building.
BROWSE
The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for thefood of cattle and other animals; green food. Spenser.Sheep, goats, and oxen, and the nobler steed, On browse, and corn,and flowery meadows feed. Dryden.
BROWSER
An animal that browses.
BROWSEWOOD
Srubs and bushes upon which animals browse.
BROWSING
Browse; also, a place abounding with shrubs where animals maybrowse.Browsings for the deer. Howell.
BROWSPOT
A rounded organ between the eyes of the frog; the interoculargland.
BRUANG
The Malayan sun bear.
BRUCINE
A poweful vegetable alkaloid, found, associated withstrychnine, in the seeds of different species of Strychnos,especially in the Nux vomica. It is less powerful than strychnine.Called also brucia and brucina.
BRUCKELED
Wet and dirty; begrimed. [Obs. or Dial.] Herrick.
BRUH
The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus.
BRUIN
A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables.
BRUISE
To fight with the fists; to box.Bruising was considered a fine, manly, old English custom. Thackeray.
BRUISEWORT
A plant supposed to heal bruises, as the true daisy, thesoapwort, and the comfrey.
BRUIT
An abnormal sound of several kinds, heard on auscultation.
BRUMAIRE
The second month of the calendar adopted by the first Frenchrepublic. It began thirty days after the autumnal equinox. SeeVendemiaire.
BRUMAL
Of or pertaining to winter. "The brumal solstice." Sir T.Browne.
BRUME
Mist; fog; vapors. "The drifting brume." Longfellow.
BRUMMAGEM
Counterfeit; gaudy but worthless; sham. [Slang] "TheseBrummagem gentry." Lady D. Hardy.
BRUMOUS
Foggy; misty.
BRUN
Same as Brun, a brook. [Scot.]
BRUNETTE
A girl or woman with a somewhat brown or dark complexion.-- a.
BRUNION
A nectarine.
BRUNONIAN
Pertaining to, or invented by, Brown; -- a term applied to asystem of medicine promulgated in the 18th century by John Brown, ofScotland, the fundamental doctrine of which was, that life is a stateof excitation produced by the normal action of external agents uponthe body, and that disease consists in excess or deficiency ofexcitation.
BRUNSWICK BLACK
See Japan black.
BRUNSWICK GREEN
An oxychloride of copper, used as a green pigment; also, acarbonate of copper similarly employed.
BRUSH
A tuft of hair on the mandibles.
BRUSH TURKEY
A large, edible, gregarious bird of Australia (TalegallaLathami) of the family Megapodidรฆ. Also applied to several alliedspecies of New Guinea.
BRUSHER
One who, or that which, brushes.
BRUSHINESS
The quality of resembling a brush; brushlike condition;shagginess. Dr. H. More.
BRUSHITE
A white or gray crystalline mineral consisting of the acidphosphate of calcium.
BRUSHY
Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough.
BRUSK
Same as Brusque.
BRUSQUE
Rough and prompt in manner; blunt; abrupt; hluff; as, a brusqueman; a brusque style.
BRUSQUENESS
Quality of being brusque; roughness joined with promptness;blutness. Brit. Quar.
BRUSSELS
A city of Belgium, giving its name to a kind of carpet, a kindof lace, etc. Brussels carpet, a kind of carpet made of worsted yarnfixed in a foundation web of strong linen thread. The worsted, whichalone shows on the upper surface in drawn up in loops to form thepattern.-- Brussels ground, a name given to the handmade ground of realBrussels lace. It is very costly because of the extreme fineness ofthe threads.-- Brussels lace, an expensive kind of lace of several varieties,originally made in Brussels; as, Brussels point, Brussels ground,Brussels wire ground.-- Brussels net, an imitation of Brussels ground, made by machinery.-- Brussels point. See Point lace.-- Brussels sprouts (Bot.), a plant of the Cabbage family, whichproduces, in the axils of the upright stem, numerous small greenheads, or "sprouts," each a cabbage in miniature, of one or twoinches in diameter; the thousand-headed cabbage.-- Brussels wire ground, a ground for lace, made of silk, withmeshes partly straight and partly arched.
BRUSTLE
A bristle. [Obs. or Prov.] Chaucer.
BRUT
To browse. [Obs.] Evelyn.
BRUTA
See Edentata.
BRUTALISM
Brutish quality; brutality.
BRUTALIZATION
The act or process of making brutal; state of being brutalized.
BRUTALIZE
To make brutal; beasty; unfeeling; or inhuman.
BRUTALLY
In a brutal manner; cruelly.
BRUTE
To report; to bruit. [Obs.]
BRUTELY
In a rude or violent manner.
BRUTIFY
To make like a brute; to make senseless, stupid, or unfeeling;to brutalize.Any man not quite brutified and void of sense. Barrow.
BRUTING
Browsing. [Obs.] Evelyn.
BRUTISH
Pertaining to, or resembling, a brute or brutes; of a cruel,gross, and stupid nature; coarse; unfeeling; unintelligent.O, let all provocation Take every brutish shape it can devise. LeighHunt.Man may . . . render himself brutish, but it is in vain that he wouldseek to take the rank and density of the brute. I. Taylor.
BRUTISM
The nature or characteristic qualities or actions of a brute;extreme stupidity, or beastly vulgarity.
BRYOLOGICAL
Relating to bryology; as, bryological studies.
BRYOLOGIST
One versed in bryology.
BRYOLOGY
That part of botany which relates to mosses.
BRYONIN
A bitter principle obtained from the root of the bryony(Bryonia alba and B. dioica). It is a white, or slightly colored,substance, and is emetic and cathartic.
BRYONY
The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genusBryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony) and of B. dioicais a strong, irritating cathartic. Black bryony, a plant (Tamuscommunis) so named from its dark glossy leaves and black root; blackbindweed.
BRYOPHYTA
See Cryptogamia.
BRYOZOA
A class of Molluscoidea, including minute animals which bybudding form compound colonies; -- called also Polyzoa.
BRYOZOAN
Of or pertaining to the Bryozoa.-- n.
BRYOZOUM
An individual zooid of a bryozoan coralline, of which there maybe two or more kinds in a single colony. The zooecia usually have awreath of tentacles around the mouth, and a well developed stomachand intestinal canal; but these parts are lacking in the other zooids(Avicularia, Ooecia, etc.).
BUANSUAH
The wild dog of northern India (Cuon primรฆvus), supposed bysome to be an ancestral species of the domestic dog.
BUAT
A lantern; also, the moon. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
BUB
Strong malt liquor. [Cant] Prior.
BUBALE
A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desertof Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible.
BUBALINE
Resembling a buffalo. Bubaline antelope (Zoรถl.), the bubale.
BUBBLE SHELL
A marine univalve shell of the genus Bulla and allied genera,belonging to the Tectibranchiata.
BUBBLER
To cheat; to deceive.She has bubbled him out of his youth. Addison.The great Locke, who was seldom outwitted by false sounds, wasnevertheless bubbled here. Sterne.
BUBBLING JOCK
The male wild turkey, the gobbler; -- so called in allusion toits notes.
BUBBLY
Abounding in bubbles; bubbling. Nash.
BUBBY
A woman's breast. [Low]
BUBO
An inflammation, with enlargement, of a limphatic gland, esp.in the groin, as in syphilis.
BUBONIC
Of or pertaining to a bubo or buboes; characterized by buboes.
BUBONOCELE
An inguinal hernia; esp. that incomplete variety in which thehernial pouch descends only as far as the groin, forming a swellingthere like a bubo.
BUBUKLE
A red pimple. [R.] Shak.
BUCCAL
Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks.
BUCCAN
A wooden frame or grid for roasting, smoking, or drying meatover fire.
BUCCANEER
A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especiallyto the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniardsin America in the 17th and 18th centuries. [Written also bucanier.]
BUCCANEERISH
Like a buccaneer; piratical.
BUCCINAL
Shaped or sounding like a trumpet; trumpetlike.
BUCCINATOR
A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowingwind instruments.
BUCCINOID
Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidรฆ,a family of marine univalve shells. See Whelk, and Prosobranchiata.
BUCCINUM
A genus of large univalve mollusks abundant in the arctic seas.It includes the common whelk (B. undatum).
BUCENTAUR
The state barge of Venice, used by the doge in the ceremony ofespousing the Adriatic.
BUCEPHALUS
The celebrated war horse of Alexander the Great.
BUCEROS
A genus of large perching birds; the hornbills.
BUCHOLZITE
Same as Fibrolite.
BUCHU
A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that aredotted with oil dlands; also, the leaves themselves, which are usedin medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several speciesfurnish the leaves.
BUCK
To break up or pulverize, as ores.
BUCK BEAN
A plant (Menyanthes trifoliata) which grows in moist and boggyplaces, having racems of white or reddish flowers and intenselybitter leaves, sometimes used in medicine; marsh trefoil; -- calledalso bog bean.
BUCK FEVER
Intense excitement at the sight of deer or other game, such asoften unnerves a novice in hunting. [Colloq.]
BUCK-BASKET
A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash. Shak.
BUCK-EYED
Having bad or speckled eyes. "A buck-eyed horse." James White.
BUCKBOARD
A four-wheeled vehicle, having a long elastic board or frameresting on the bolsters or axletrees, and a seat or seats placedtransversely upon it; -- called also buck wagon.
BUCKER
A horse or mule that bucks.
BUCKET
One of the receptacles on the rim of a water wheel into whichthe water rushes, causing the wheel to revolve; also, a float of apaddle wheel.
BUCKET SHOP
An office or a place where facilities are given for bettingsmall sums on current prices of stocks, petroleum, etc. [Slang, U.S.]
BUCKETY
Paste used by weavers to dress their webs. Buchanan.
BUCKEYE
A name given to several American trees and shrubs of the samegenus (รsculus) as the horse chestnut. The Ohio buckeye, or Fetidbuckeye, is รsculus glabra.-- Red buckeye is ร. Pavia.-- Small buckeye is ร. paviflora.-- Sweet buckeye, or Yellow buckeye, is ร. flava.
BUCKHOUND
A hound for hunting deer. Master of the buckhounds, an officerin the royal household. [Eng.]
BUCKIE
A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. SeeBuccinum. [Scot.] Deil's buckie, a perverse, refractory youngster.[Slang]
BUCKISH
Dandified; foppish.
BUCKLER
A block of wood or plate of iron made to fit a hawse hole, orthe circular opening in a half-port, to prevent water from enteringwhen the vessel pitches. Blind buckler (Naut.), a solid buckler.-- Buckler mustard (Bot.), a genus of plants (Biscutella) with smallbright yellow flowers. The seed vessel on bursting resembles twobucklers or shields.-- Buckler thorn, a plant with seed vessels shaped like a buckler.See Christ's thorn.-- Riding buckler (Naut.), a buckler with a hole for the passage ofa cable.
BUCKLER-HEADED
Having a head like a buckler.
BUCKLING
Wavy; curling, as hair. Latham.
BUCKRA
A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast,West Indies, etc.
BUCKRAM
A plant. See Ramson. Dr. Prior.
BUCKSHOT
A coarse leaden shot, larger than swan shot, used in huntingdeer and large game.
BUCKSKIN
Breeches made of buckskin.I have alluded to his buckskin. Thackeray.
BUCKSTALL
A toil or net to take deer.
BUCKTHORN
A genus (Rhamnus) of shrubs or trees. The shorter branches ofsome species terminate in long spines or thorns. See Rhamnus. Seabuckthorn, a plant of the genus Hippophaรซ.
BUCKTOOTH
Any tooth that juts out.When he laughed, two white buckteeth protruded. Thackeray.
BUCKWHEAT
A plant (Fagopyrum esculentum) of the Polygonum family, theseed of which is used for food.
BUCOLIC
Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd;pastoral; rustic.
BUCOLICAL
Bucolic.
BUCRANIUM
A sculptured ornament, representing an ox skull adorned withwreaths, etc.
BUD
A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant,containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; anundeveloped branch or flower.
BUDDHA
The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, andwisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. GautamaSiddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism.
BUDDHISM
The religion based upon the doctrine originally taught by theHindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, "the awakened orenlightened," in the sixth century b.c., and adopted as a religion bythe greater part of the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Asia andthe Indian Islands. Buddha's teaching is believed to have beenatheistic; yet it was characterized by elevated humanity andmorality. It presents release from existence (a beatificenfranchisement, Nirvรขna) as the greatest good. Buddhists believe intransmigration of souls through all phases and forms of life. Theirnumber was estimated in 1881 at 470,000,000.
BUDDHIST
One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism.
BUDDHISTIC
Same as Buddhist, a.
BUDDING
A process of asexual reproduction, in which a new organism orcell is formed by a protrusion of a portion of the animal orvegetable organism, the bud thus formed sometimes remaining attachedto the parent stalk or cell, at other times becoming free; gemmation.See Hydroidea.
BUDDLE
An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in whichstamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of rynningwater so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions.
BUDE BURNER
A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners(the inner rising above the outer) and a central tube by which oxygengas or common air is supplied.
BUDE LIGHT
A light in which high illuminating power is obtained byintroducing a jet of oxygen gas or of common air into the center of aflame fed with coal gas or with oil.
BUDGE
To move off; to stir; to walk away.I'll not budge an inch, boy. Shak.The mouse ne'er shunned the cat as they did budge From rascals worsethan they. Shak.
BUDGENESS
Sternness; severity. [Obs.]A Sara for goodness, a great Bellona for budgeness. Stanyhurst.
BUDGER
One who budges. Shak.
BUDGEROW
A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggishboat, used for journeys on the Ganges.
BUDGY
Consisting of fur. [Obs.]
BUDLET
A little bud springing from a parent bud.We have a criterion to distinguish one bud from another, or theparent bud from the numerous budlets which are its offspring. E.Darwin.
BUFF
The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. SeeBuffy coat, under Buffy, a.
BUFFA
The comic actress in an opera.-- a.
BUFFALO
A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originallyfrom India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of theeastern continent. It is larger and less docile than the common ox,and is fond of marshy places and rivers.
BUFFEL DUCK
A small duck (Charitonetta albeola); the spirit duck, orbutterball. The head of the male is covered with numerous elongatedfeathers, and thus appears large. Called also bufflehead.
BUFFERHEAD
The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, inrailroad carriages.
BUFFET
To deaden the sound of (bells) by muffling the clapper.
BUFFETER
One who buffets; a boxer. Jonson.
BUFFIN
A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns. [Obs.]
BUFFING APPARATUS
See Buffer, 1.
BUFFLE
The buffalo. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
BUFFLE-HEADED
Having a large head, like a buffalo; dull; stupid; blundering.[Obs.]So fell this buffle-headed giant. Gayton.
BUFFLEHEAD
The buffel duck. See Buffel duck.
BUFFO
The comic actor in an opera.
BUFFOON
A man who makes a practice of amusing others by low tricks,antic gestures, etc.; a droll; a mimic; a harlequin; a clown; amerry-andrew.
BUFFOONERY
The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculouspranks, vulgar tricks and postures.Nor that it will ever constitute a wit to conclude a tart piece ofbuffoonery with a "What makes you blush" Spectator.
BUFFOONISH
Like a buffoon; consisting in low jests or gestures. Blair.
BUFFOONISM
The practices of a buffoon; buffoonery.
BUFFOONLY
Low; vulgar. [R.]Apish tricks and buffoonly discourse. Goodman.
BUFFY
Resembling, or characterized by, buff. Buffy coat, thecoagulated plasma of blood when the red corpuscles have so settledout that the coagulum appears nearly colorless. This is common indiseased conditions where the corpuscles run together more rapidlyand in denser masses than usual. Huxley.
BUFO
A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.
BUFONITE
An old name for a fossil consisting of the petrified teeth andpalatal bones of fishes belonging to the family of Pycnodonts (thickteeth), whose remains occur in the oรถlite and chalk formations;toadstone; -- so named from a notion that it was originally formed inthe head of a toad.
BUG
A general name applied to various insects belonging to theHemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc.
BUGBANE
A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceรฆ andgenus Cimiciguga; bugwort. There are several species.
BUGBEAR
Same as Bugaboo.-- a.
BUGFISH
The menhaden. [U.S.]
BUGGERY
Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy.
BUGGINESS
The state of being infested with bugs.
BUGGY
Infested or abounding with bugs.
BUGLE
A sort of wild ox; a buffalo. E. Phillips.
BUGLED
Ornamented with bugles.
BUGLER
One who plays on a bugle.
BUGLEWEED
A plant of the Mint family and genus Lycopus; esp. L.Virginicus, which has mild narcotic and astringent properties, and issometimes used as a remedy for hemorrhage.
BUGLOSS
A plant of the genus Anchusa, and especially the A.officinalis, sometimes called alkanet; oxtongue. Small wild bugloss,the Asperugo procumbens and the Lycopsis arvensis.-- Viper's bugloss, a species of Echium.
BUGWORT
Bugbane.
BUHLBUHL
See Bulbul.
BUHRSTONE
A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones. [Written alsoburrstone.]
BUILD
Form or mode of construction; general figure; make; as, thebuild of a ship.
BUILDER
One who builds; one whose occupation is to build, as acarpenter, a shipwright, or a mason.In the practice of civil architecture, the builder comes between thearchitect who designs the work and the artisans who execute it. Eng.Cyc.
BUILT
Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship.[Obs.] Dryden.
BUKE MUSLIN
See Book muslin.
BUKSHISH
See Backsheesh.
BULAU
An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii),somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog.
BULB
A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or belowthe ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of acluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, astem above, and roots below, as in the onion, tulip, etc. It differsfrom a corm in not being solid.
BULBACEOUS
Bulbous. Jonson.
BULBAR
Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertainingto the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbarparalysis.
BULBED
Having a bulb; round-headed.
BULBEL
A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants.
BULBIFEROUS
Producing bulbs.
BULBIL
A small or secondary bulb; hence, now almost exclusively: Anaรซrial bulb or deciduous bud, produced in the leaf axils, as in thetiger lily, or relpacing the flowers, as in some onions, and capable,when separated, of propagating the plant; -- called also bulblet andbrood bud.
BULBLET
A small bulb, either produced on a larger bulb, or on someaรซrial part of a plant, as in the axils of leaves in the tiger lily,or replacing the flowers in some kinds of onion.
BULBO-TUBER
A corm.
BULBOSE
Bulbous.
BULBOUS
Having or containing bulbs, or a bulb; growing from bulbs;bulblike in shape or structure.
BULBUL
The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus). The name is alsoapplied to several other Asiatic singing birds, of the familyTimaliidรฆ. The green bulbuls belong to the Chloropsis and alliedgenera. [Written also buhlbuhl.]
BULBULE
A small bulb; a bulblet.
BULCHIN
A little bull.
BULGE
The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2. Bulge ways. (Naut.) SeeBilge ways.
BULGER
A driver or a brassy with a convex face.
BULGY
Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward.[Colloq.]
BULIMUS
A genus of land snails having an elongated spiral shell, oftenof large size. The species are numerous ingabundant in tropicalAmerica.
BULK
The cargo of a vessel when stowed.
BULKER
A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, inorder to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them.
BULKHEAD
A partition in a vessel, to separate apartments on the samedeck.
BULKINESS
Greatness in bulk; size.
BULKY
Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick;massive; as, bulky volumes.A bulky digest of the revenue laws. Hawthorne.
BULL
The male of any species of cattle (Bovidรฆ); hence, the male ofany large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale.
BULL BRIER
A species of Smilax (S. Pseudo-China) growing from New Jerseyto the Gulf of Mexico, which has very large tuberous and farinaceousrootstocks, formerly used by the Indians for a sort of bread, and bythe negroes as an ingredient in making beer; -- called also bamboobrier and China brier.
BULL TERRIER
A breed of dogs obtained by crossing the bulldog and theterrier.
BULL-NECKED
Having a short and thick neck like that of a bull. Sir W.Scott.
BULL-ROARER
A contrivance consisting of a slat of wood tied to the end of athong or string, with which the slat is whirled so as to cause anintermittent roaring noise. It is used as a toy, and among some racesin certain religious rites.
BULLA
A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing atransparent watery fluid.
BULLANTIC
Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls. Fry. Bullantic letters,Gothic letters used in papal bulls.
BULLARY
A collection of papal bulls.
BULLATE
Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered. Bullate leaf(Bot.), a leaf, the membranous part of which rises between the veinspuckered elevations convex on one side and concave on the other.
BULLBEGGAR
Something used or suggested to produce terror, as in childrenor persons of weak mind; a bugbear.And being an ill-looked fellow, he has a pension from the churchwardens for being bullbeggar to all the forward children in theparish. Mountfort (1691).
BULLCOMBER
A scaraboid beetle; esp. the Typhรฆus vulgaris of Europe.
BULLDOG
A variety of dog, of remarkable ferocity, courage, and tenacityof grip; -- so named, probably, from being formerly employed inbaiting bulls.
BULLDOZE
To intimidate; to restrain or coerce by intimidation orviolence; -- used originally of the intimidation of negro voters, inLouisiana. [Slang, U.S.]
BULLDOZER
One who bulldozes. [Slang]
BULLED
Swollen. [Obs.]
BULLEN-BULLEN
The lyre bird.
BULLEN-NAIL
A nail with a round head and short shank, tinned and lacquered.
BULLET-PROOF
Capable of resisting the force of a bullet. Bullet tree. SeeBully tree.-- Bullet wood, the wood of the bullet tree.
BULLFACED
Having a large face.
BULLFEAST
See Bullfight. [Obs.]
BULLFINCH
A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera,especially the P. vulgaris or rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied tothe grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.
BULLFROG
A very large species of frog (Rana Catesbiana), found in NorthAmerica; -- so named from its loud bellowing in spring.
BULLHEAD
A small black water insect. E. Phillips. Bullhead whiting(Zoรถl.), the kingfish of Florida (Menticirrus alburnus).
BULLHEADED
Having a head like that of a bull. Fig.: Headstrong; obstinate;dogged.
BULLIONIST
An advocate for a metallic currency, or a paper currency alwaysconvertible into gold.
BULLIRAG
To intimidate by bullying; to rally contemptuously; to badger.[Low]
BULLISH
Partaking of the nature of a bull, or a blunder.Let me inform you, a toothless satire is as improper as a toothedsleek stone, and as bullish. Milton.
BULLIST
A writer or drawer up of papal bulls. [R.] Harmar.
BULLITION
The action of boiling; boiling. [Obs.] See Ebullition. Bacon.
BULLOCK
To bully. [Obs.]She shan't think to bullock and domineer over me. Foote.
BULLON
A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis).
BULLPOUT
See Bullhead, 1 (b).
BULLWEED
Knapweed. Prior.
BULLWORT
See Bishop's-weed.
BULLY
To intimidate with threats and by an overbearing, swaggeringdemeanor; to act the part of a bully toward.For the last fortnight there have been prodigious shoals ofvolunteers gone over to bully the French, upon hearing the peace wasjust signing. Tatler.
BULLY TREE
The name of several West Indian trees of the order Sapotaceรฆ,as Dipholis nigra and species of Sapota and Mimusops. Most of themyield a substance closely resembling gutta-percha.
BULLYRAG
Same as Bullirag.
BULLYROCK
A bully. [Slang Obs.] Shak.
BULRUSH
A kind of large rush, growing in wet land or in water.
BULSE
A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc.[India] Macaulay.
BULTEL
A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran. [Obs.]
BULTI
Same as Bolty.
BULTONG
Biltong.
BULTOW
A trawl; a boulter; the mod
BULWARK
A rampart; a fortification; a bastion or outwork.
BUM
The buttock. [Low] Shak.
BUMBAILIFF
See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a.
BUMBARD
See Bombard. [Obs.]
BUMBARGE
See Bumboat. Carlyle.
BUMBAST
See Bombast. [Obs.]
BUMBELO
A glass used in subliming camphor. [Spelled also bombolo andbumbolo.]
BUMBLE
The bittern. [Local, Eng.]
BUMBLEBEE
A large bee of the genus Bombus, sometimes called humblebee; --so named from its sound.
BUMBLEPUPPY
The old game of nineholes.
BUMBOAT
A clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., forsale, to vessels lying in port or off shore.
BUMKIN
A projecting beam or boom; as: (a) One projecting from each bowof a vessel, to haul the fore tack to, called a tack bumpkin. (b) Onrfrom each quarter, for the main-brace blocks, and called bracebumpkin. (c) A small outrigger over the stern of a boat, to extendthe mizzen. [Written also boomkin.]
BUMMALO
A small marine Asiatic fish (Saurus ophidon) used in India as arelish; -- called also Bombay duck.
BUMMER
An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means ofsupport; a dissipated sponger. [Slang, U.S.]
BUMMERY
See Bottomery. [Obs.]There was a scivener of Wapping brought to hearing for relief againsta bummery bond. R. North.
BUMP
To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; tothump; as, to bump the head against a wall.
BUMPKIN
An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout."Bashful country bumpkins." W. Irving.
BUMPTIOUS
Self-conceited; forward; pushing. [Colloq.] Halliwell.
BUMPTIOUSNESS
Conceitedness. [Colloq.]
BUNCH
A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from acontinuous vein. Page.
BUNCH GRASS
A grass growing in bunches and affording pasture. InCalifornia, Atropis tenuifolia, Festuca scabrella, and several kindsof Stipa are favorite bunch grasses. In Utah, Eriocoma cuspidata is agood bunch grass.
BUNCH-BACKED
Having a bunch on the back; crooked. "Bunch-backed toad." Shak.
BUNCHBERRY
The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a densecluster of bright red, edible berries.
BUNCHINESS
The quality or condition of being bunchy; knobbiness.
BUNCHY
Yielding irregularly; sometimes rich, sometimes poor; as, abunchy mine. Page.
BUND
League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states.
BUNDER
A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing ofpassengers and goods.
BUNDES-VERSAMMLUNG
See Legislature, Switzerland.
BUNDESRATH
The federal council of the German Empire. In the Bundesrath andthe Reichstag are vested the legislative functions. The federalcouncil of Switzerland is also so called.
BUNDLE
A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope,into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loosepackage; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of oldclothes.The fable of the rods, which, when united in a bundle, no strengthcould bend. Goldsmith.Bundle pillar (Arch.), a column or pier, with others of smalldimensions attached to it. Weale.
BUNDOBUST
System; discipline. [India]
BUNG
To stop, as the orifice in the bilge of a cask, with a bung; toclose; -- with up. To bung up, to use up, as by bruising or overexertion; to exhaust or incapacitate for action. [Low]He had bunged up his mouth that he should not have spoken these threeyears. Shelton (Trans. Don Quixote).
BUNGALOW
A thatched or tiled house or cottage, of a single story,usually surrounded by a veranda. [India]
BUNGARUM
A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to thecobras, but without a hood.
BUNGHOLE
See Bung, n., 2. Shak.
BUNGLE
To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner.
BUNGLER
A clumsy, awkward workman; one who bungles.If to be a dunce or a bungler in any profession be shameful, how muchmore ignominious and infamous to a scholar to be such! Barrow.
BUNGLING
Unskillful; awkward; clumsy; as, a bungling workman. Swift.They make but bungling work. Dryden.
BUNGLINGLY
Clumsily; awkwardly.
BUNGO
A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kindof boat used in the Southern United States. Bartlett.
BUNION
Same as Bunyon.
BUNK
To go to bed in a bunk; -- sometimes with in. [Colloq. U.S.]Bartlett.
BUNKO
A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by asham lottery. [Written also bunco.] Bunko steerer, a person employedas a decoy in bunko. [Slang, U.S.]
BUNKUM
See Buncombe.
BUNN
See Bun.
BUNNIAN
See Bunyon.
BUNNY
A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it orgoing out from it.
BUNSEN CELL
A zinc-carbon cell in which the zinc (amalgamated) issurrounded by dilute sulphuric acid, and the carbon by nitric acid ora chromic acid mixture, the two plates being separated by a porouscup.
BUNT
A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals,filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand.
BUNTER
A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgarwoman. [Cant]Her . . . daughters, like bunters in stuff gowns. Goldsmith.
BUNTING
A bird of the genus Emberiza, or of an allied genus, related tothe finches and sparrows (family Fringillidรฆ).
BUNTLINE
One of the ropes toggled to the footrope of a sail, used tohaul up to the yard the body of the sail when taking it in. Totten.
BUOY
A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark achannel or to point out the position of something beneath the water,as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc. Anchor buoy, a buoy attached to, ormarking the position of, an anchor.-- Bell buoy, a large buoy on which a bell is mounted, to be rung bythe motion of the waves.-- Breeches buoy. See under Breeches.-- Cable buoy, an empty cask employed to buoy up the cable in rockyanchorage.-- Can buoy, a hollow buoy made of sheet or boiler iron, usuallyconical or pear-shaped.-- Life buoy, a float intended to support persons who have falleninto the water, until a boat can be dispatched to save them.-- Nut or Nun buoy, a buoy large in the middle, and tapering nearlyto a point at each end.-- To stream the buoy, to let the anchor buoy fall by the ship'sside into the water, before letting go the anchor.-- Whistling buoy, a buoy fitted with a whistle that is blown by theaction of the waves.
BUOYAGE
Buoys, taken collectively; a series of buoys, as for theguidance of vessels into or out of port; the providing of buoys.
BUOYANCE
Buoyancy. [R.]
BUOYANCY
The upward pressure exerted upon a floating body by a fluid,which is equal to the weight of the body; hence, also, the weight ofa floating body, as measured by the volume of fluid displaced.Such are buoyancies or displacements of the different classes of hermajesty's ships. Eng. Cyc.
BUPRESTIDAN
One of a tribe of beetles, of the genus Buprestis and alliedgenera, usually with brilliant metallic colors. The larvรฆ are usuallybores in timber, or beneath bark, and are often very destructive totrees.
BUR FISH
A spinose, plectognath fish of the Allantic coast of the UnitedStates (esp. Chilo mycterus geometricus) having the power ofdistending its body with water or air, so as to resemble a chestnutbur; -- called also ball fish, balloon fish, and swellfish.
BUR MARIGOLD
See Beggar's ticks.
BURBOLT
A birdbolt. [Obs.] Ford.
BURBOT
A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose twovery small barbels, and a larger one on the chin. [Written alsoburbolt.]
BURDELAIS
A sort of grape. Jonson.
BURDEN
The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream oftin.
BURDENER
One who loads; a oppressor.
BURDENOUS
Burdensome. [Obs.] "Burdenous taxations." Shak.
BURDENSOME
Grievous to be borne; causing uneasiness or fatigue;oppressive.The debt immense of endless gratitude So burdensome. Milton.
BURDOCK
A genus of coarse biennial herbs (Lappa), bearing small burswhich adhere tenaciously to clothes, or to the fur or wool ofanimals.
BURDON
A pilgrim's staff. [Written also burden.] Rom. of R.
BUREAUCRAT
An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrowand arbitrary routine. C. Kingsley.
BUREAUCRATIST
An advocate for , or supporter of, bureaucracy.
BUREL
Same as Borrel.
BURETTE
An apparatus for delivering measured quantities of liquid orfor measuring the quantity of liquid or gas received or discharged.It consists essentially of a graduated glass tube, usually furnishedwith a small aperture and stopcock.
BURGAGE
A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or otherlord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by servicesrelating to trade or handicraft. Burrill.
BURGALL
A small marine fish; -- also called cunner.
BURGAMOT
See Bergamot.
BURGANET
See Burgonet.
BURGEE
A swallow-tailed flag; a distinguishing pen
BURGEOIS
See 1st Bourgeous.
BURGEON
To bud. See Bourgeon.
BURGESS-SHIP
The state of privilege of a burgess. South.
BURGGRAVE
Originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress orcastle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domainattached.
BURGH
A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland.See Borough.
BURGHAL
Belonging of a burgh.
BURGHBOTE
A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles orwalls for the defense of a city or town.
BURGHBRECH
The offense of violating the pledge given by every inhabitantof a tithing to keep the peace; breach of the peace. Burrill.
BURGHER
A member of that party, among the Scotch seceders, whichasserted the lawfulness of the burgess oath (in which burgessesprofess "the true religion professed within the realm"), the oppositeparty being called antiburghers.
BURGHERMASTER
See Burgomaster.
BURGHERSHIP
The state or privileges of a burgher.
BURGHMASTER
An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries forthe workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster. [Eng.]
BURGHMOTE
A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court heldthree times yearly.
BURGLAR
One guilty of the crime of burglary. Burglar alarm, a devicefor giving alarm if a door or window is opened from without.
BURGLARER
A burglar. [Obs.]
BURGLARIOUS
Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary.To come down a chimney is held a burglarious entry. Blackstone.
BURGLARIOUSLY
With an intent to commit burglary; in the manner of a burglar.Blackstone.
BURGLARY
Breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, in thenighttime, with intent to commit a felony therein, whether thefelonious purpose be accomplished or not. Wharton. Burrill.
BURGOMASTER
An aquatic bird, the glaucous gull (Larus glaucus), common inarctic regions.
BURGONET
A kind of helmet. [Written also burganet.] Shak.
BURGOO
A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen.[Written also burgout.]
BURGRASS
Grass of the genus Cenchrus, growing in sand, and having bursfor fruit.
BURGRAVE
See Burggrave.
BURH
See Burg. [Obs.]
BURIER
One who, or that which, buries.Till the buriers have buried it. Ezek. xxxix. 15.And darkness be the burier of the dead. Shak.
BURINIST
One who works with the burin. For. Quart. Rev.
BURION
The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacusfrontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch. [Written alsoburrion.]
BURKISM
The practice of killing persons for the purpose of sellingtheir bodies for dissection.
BURL
To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loosethreads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth. Burling iron, a peculiarkind of nippers or tweezers used in burling woolen cloth.
BURLAP
A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also,a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc. [Writtenalso burlaps.]
BURLER
One who burls or dresses cloth.
BURLESQUE
Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images,or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it,as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular;ironical.It is a dispute among the critics, whether burlesque poetry runs bestin heroic verse, like that of the Dispensary, or in doggerel, likethat of Hudibras. Addison.
BURLESQUER
One who burlesques.
BURLETTA
A comic operetta; a music farce. Byron.
BURLINESS
Quality of being burly.
BURMAN
A member of the Burman family, one of the four great familiesBurmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese.-- a.
BURMESE
Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
BURN
To apply a cautery to; to cauterize.
BURNABLE
Combustible. Cotgrave.
BURNED
See Burnt.
BURNET
A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially,P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet. Burnet moth (Zoรถl.), inEngland, a handsome moth (Zygรฆna filipendula), with crimson spots onthe wings.-- Burnet saxifrage. (Bot.) See Saxifrage.-- Canadian burnet, a marsh plant (Poterium Canadensis).-- Great burnet, Wild burnet, Poterium (or Sanguisorba) oficinalis.
BURNETTIZE
To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation ina solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a processinvented by Sir William Burnett.
BURNIE
A small brook. [Scot.] Burns.
BURNIEBEE
The ladybird. [Prov. Eng.]
BURNING
The act of consuming by fire or heat, or of subjecting to theeffect of fire or heat; the state of being on fire or excessivelyheated. Burning fluid, any volatile illuminating oil, as the lighterpetroleums (naphtha, benzine), or oil of turpentine (camphine), butesp. a mixture of the latter with alcohol.-- Burning glass, a conxex lens of considerable size, used forproducing an intense heat by converging the sun's rays to a focus.-- Burning house (Metal.), the furnace in which tin ores arecalcined, to sublime the sulphur and arsenic from the pyrites. Weale.-- Burning mirror, a concave mirror, or a combination of planemirrors, used for the same purpose as a burning glass.
BURNISH
To cause to shine; to make smooth and bright; to polish;specifically, to polish by rubbing with something hard and smooth;as, to burnish brass or paper.The frame of burnished steel, that east a glare From far, and seemedto thaw the freezing air. Dryden.Now the village windows blaze, Burnished by the setting sun.Cunningham.Burnishing machine, a machine for smoothing and polishing bycompression, as in making paper collars.
BURNSTICKLE
A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).
BURNT
Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as withfire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun. Burnt ear, ablack, powdery fungus which destroys grain. See Smut.-- Burnt offering, something offered and burnt on an altar, as anatonement for sin; a sacrifice. The offerings of the Jews were aclean animal, as an ox, a calf, a goat, or a sheep; or some vegetablesubstance, as bread, or ears of wheat or barley. Called also burntsacrifice. [2 Sam. xxiv. 22.]
BURR
A guttural pronounciation of the letter r, produced by trillingthe extremity of the soft palate against the back part of the tongue;rotacism; -- often called the Newcastle, Northumberland, orTweedside, burr.
BURR MILLSTONE
See Buhrstone.
BURREL
A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from itssmooth, delicious, soft pulp.
BURREL FLY
The botfly or gadfly of cattle (Hypoderma bovis). See Gadfly.
BURREL SHOT
A mixture of shot, nails, stones, pieces of old iron, etc.,fired from a cannon at short range, in an emergency. [R.]
BURRING MACHINE
A machine for cleansing wool of burs, seeds, and othersubstances.
BURRO
A donkey. [Southern U.S.]
BURROCK
A small weir or dam in a river to direct the stream to gapswhere fish traps are placed. Knight.
BURROW
A heap or heaps of rubbish or refuse.
BURROWER
One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a holeunder ground and lives in it.
BURRSTONE
See Buhrstone.
BURRY
Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as,burry wool.
BURSA
Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovialsacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposedbetween tendons and bony prominences.
BURSAL
Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursรฆ.
BURSARSHIP
The office of a bursar.
BURSCH
A youth; especially, a student in a german university.
BURSCHENSCHAFT
In Germany, any of various associations of university studentsformed (the original one at Jena in 1815) to support liberal ideas,or the organization formed by the affiliation of the local bodies.The organization was suppressed by the government in 1819, but wassecretly revived, and is now openly maintained as a socialorganization, the restrictive laws having been repealed prior to1849. -- Bur"schen*schaft`ler (#), -schaf`ter (#), n.
BURSE
An ornamental case of hold the corporal when not in use.Shipley.
BURSICULATE
Bursiform.
BURSIFORM
Shaped like a purse.
BURSITIS
Inflammation of a bursa.
BURSTEN
p. p. of Burst, v. i. [Obs.]
BURSTER
One that bursts.
BURSTWORT
A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cureof hernia or rupture.
BURT
See Birt. [Prov. Eng.]
BURTHEN
See Burden. [Archaic]
BURTON
A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys,the weight being suspended of a hook block in the bight of therunning part.
BURY
The ground or place for burying the dead; burial place.
BUS
An omnibus. [Colloq.]
BUSBY
A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is offur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment,hanging from the top over the right shoulder.
BUSCON
One who searches for ores; a prospector. [U.S.]
BUSH
The tail, or brush, of a fox. To beat about the bush, toapproach anything in a round-about manner, instead of coming directlyto it; -- a metaphor taken from hunting.-- Bush bean (Bot.), a variety of bean which is low and requires nosupport (Phaseolus vulgaris, variety nanus). See Bean, 1.-- Bush buck, or Bush goat (Zoรถl.), a beautiful South Africanantelope (Tragelaphus sylvaticus); -- so called because found mainlyin wooden localities. The name is also applied to other species.-- Bush cat (Zoรถl.), the serval. See Serval.-- Bush chat (Zoรถl.), a bird of the genus Pratincola, of the Thrushfamily.-- Bush dog. (Zoรถl.) See Potto.-- Bush hammer. See Bushhammer in the Vocabulary.-- Bush harrow (Agric.) See under Harrow.-- Bush hog (Zoรถl.), a South African wild hog (PotamochoerusAfricanus); -- called also bush pig, and water hog.-- Bush master (Zoรถl.), a venomous snake (Lachesis mutus) of Guinea;-- called also surucucu.-- Bush pea (Bot.), a variety of pea that needs to be bushed.-- Bush shrike (Zoรถl.), a bird of the genus Thamnophilus, and alliedgenera; -- called also batarg. Many species inhabit tropical America.-- Bush tit (Zoรถl.), a small bird of the genus Psaltriparus, alliedto the titmouse. P. minimus inhabits California.
BUSHBOY
See Bushman.
BUSHELAGE
A duty payable on commodities by the bushel. [Eng.]
BUSHELMAN
A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called alsobusheler. [Local, U.S.]
BUSHET
A small bush.
BUSHFIGHTER
One accustomed to bushfighting. Parkman.
BUSHFIGHTING
Fighting in the bush, or from behind bushes, trees, orthickets.
BUSHHAMMER
A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, withpyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cutinto a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone.
BUSHIDO
The unwritten code of moral principles regulating the actionsof the Japanese knighthood, or Samurai; the chivalry of Japan.
BUSHINESS
The condition or quality of being bushy.
BUSHING
A bush or lining; -- sometimes called . See 4th Bush.
BUSHLESS
Free from bushes; bare.O'er the long backs of the bushless downs. Tennyson.
BUSHMAN
One of a race of South African nomads, living principally inthe deserts, and not classified as allied in race or language to anyother people.
BUSHRANGER
One who roams, or hides, among the bushes; especially, inAustralia, an escaped criminal living in the bush.
BUSILY
In a busy manner.
BUSINESS
The position, distribution, and order of persons and propertieson the stage of a theater, as determined by the stage manager inrehearsal.
BUSINESSLIKE
In the manner of one transacting business wisely and by rightmethods.
BUSK
A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or othermaterial, worn in the front of a corset.Her long slit sleeves, stiff busk, puff verdingall, Is all that makesher thus angelical. Marston.
BUSKED
Wearing a busk. Pollok.
BUSKY
See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n. Shak.
BUSS
A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack. Shak.
BUSTARD
A bird of the genus Otis.
BUSTER
Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree. [Slang,U.S.] Bartlett.
BUSTLE
To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to causeagitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd.And leave the world for me to bustle in. Shak.
BUSTLER
An active, stirring person.
BUSTLING
Agitated; noisy; tumultuous; characterized by confusedactivity; as, a bustling crowd. "A bustling wharf." Hawthorne.
BUSTO
A bust; a statue.With some antick bustoes in the niches. Ashmole.
BUSY
To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; tooccupy; as, to busy one's self with books.Be it thy course to busy giddy minds With foreign quarrels. Shak.
BUSYBODY
One who officiously concerns himself with the affairs ofothers; a meddling person.And not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking thingswhich they ought not. 1 Tim. v. 13.
BUT
The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; --opposed to ben, the inner room. [Scot.]
BUT-THORN
The common European starfish (Asterias rubens).
BUTANE
An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, orparaffin, series.
BUTCHERLINESS
Butchery quality.
BUTCHERLY
Like a butcher; without compunction; savage; bloody; inhuman;fell. "The victim of a butcherly murder." D. Webster.What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly, This deadly quarrel dailydoth beget! Shak.
BUTLER
An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whoseprincipal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.;the head servant in a large house.The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt. Gen. xl. 5.Your wine locked up, your butler strolled abroad. Pope.
BUTLERAGE
A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported intoEngland by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to theking's butler for the king. Blackstone.
BUTLERSHIP
The office of a butler.
BUTMENT
A buttress of an arch; the supporter, or that part which joinsit to the upright pier.
BUTT
To strike by thrusting the head against; to strike with thehead.Two harmless lambs are butting one the other. Sir H. Wotton.
BUTT HINGE
See 1st Butt, 10.
BUTT JOINT
A joint in which the edges or ends of the pieces united comesquarely together instead of overlapping. See 1st Butt, 8.
BUTT SHAFT
An arrow without a barb, for shooting at butts; an arrow. [Alsobut shaft.] Shak.
BUTT WELD
See Butt weld, under Butt.
BUTTE
A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from thegeneral level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiarelevations in the Rocky Mountain region.The creek . . . passes by two remarkable buttes of red conglomerate.Ruxton.
BUTTER
One who, or that which, butts.
BUTTER-FINGERED
Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery;careless.
BUTTER-SCOTCH
A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter. [Colloq.]Dickens.
BUTTERBALL
The buffel duck.
BUTTERBIRD
The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island ofJamaica.
BUTTERBUMP
The European bittern. Johnson.
BUTTERBUR
A broad-leaved plant (Petasites vulgaris) of the Compositefamily, said to have been used in England for wrapping up pats ofbutter.
BUTTERCUP
A plant of the genus Ranunculus, or crowfoot, particularly R.bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower,golden cup, and kingcup. It is the cuckoobud of Shakespeare.
BUTTERFISH
A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to theirslippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of theAtlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, therock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand.
BUTTERFLY
A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.
BUTTERINE
A substance prepared from animal fat with some otheringredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter.The manufacturers ship large quantities of oleomargarine to England,Holland, and other countries, to be manufactured into butter, whichis sold as butterine or suine. Johnson's Cyc.
BUTTERIS
A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in ahandle which rests against the shoulder of the operator. It isoperated by a thrust movement, and used in paring the hoofs ofhorses.
BUTTERMAN
A man who makes or sells butter.
BUTTERMILK
The milk that remains after the butter is separated from thecream.
BUTTERNUT
An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, andits edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter.Sometimes called oil nut and white walnut.
BUTTERWEED
An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Seneciolobatus).
BUTTERWEIGHT
Over weight. Swift.
BUTTERWORT
A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves whichsecrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to whichinsects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects aredigested by the plant. The species are found mostly in the NorthTemperate zone.
BUTTERY
Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter.
BUTTING
An abuttal; a boundary.Without buttings or boundings on any side. Bp. Beveridge.
BUTTING JOINT
A joint between two pieces of timber or wood, at the end of oneor both, and either at right angles or oblique to the grain, as thejoints which the struts and braces form with the truss posts; --sometimes called abutting joint.
BUTTOCK
The convexity of a ship behind, under the stern. Mar. Dict.
BUTTON
To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will notbutton.
BUTTONBALL
See Buttonwood.
BUTTONBUSH
A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; -- so called from its globular head of flowers. See Capitulum.
BUTTONHOLE
The hole or loop in which a button is caught.
BUTTONMOLD
A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into abutton by covering it with cloth. [Written also buttonmould.] Fossilbuttonmolds, joints of encrinites. See Encrinite.
BUTTONS
A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on hislivry. [Colloq.] Dickens.
BUTTONWEED
The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia,of the Madder family.
BUTTONWOOD
The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a largetree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called alsobuttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore.The California buttonwood is P. racemosa.
BUTTONY
Ornamented with a large number of buttons. "The buttony boy."Thackeray. "My coat so blue and buttony." W. S. Gilbert.
BUTTRESS
A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust ofan arch, or for ornament and symmetry.
BUTTWELD
To unite by a butt weld.
BUTTY
One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore.
BUTYL
A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom ofhydrogen.
BUTYLAMINE
A colorless liquid base, C4H9NH2, of which there are fourisomeric varieties.
BUTYLENE
Any one of three metameric hydrocarbons, C4H8, of the ethyleneseries. They are gaseous or easily liquefiable.
BUTYRACEOUS
Having the qualities of butter; resembling butter.
BUTYRATE
A salt of butyric acid.
BUTYRIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, butter. Butyric acid,C3H7.CO2H, an acid found in butter; an oily, limpid fluid, having thesmell of rancid butter, and an acrid taste, with a sweetishaftertaste, like that of ether. There are two metameric butyricacids, called in distinction the normal- and iso-butyric acid. Thenormal butyric acid is the one common in rancid butter.
BUTYRIN
A butyrate of glycerin; a fat contained in small quantity inmilk, which helps to give to butter its peculiar flavor.
BUTYROMETER
An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter orbutter contained in a sample of milk.
BUTYRONE
A liquid ketone obtained by heating calcium butyrate.
BUTYROUS
Butyraceous.
BUTYRYL
The radical (C4H7O) of butyric acid.
BUXEOUS
Belonging to the box tree.
BUXINE
An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common boxtree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina.
BUY
To negotiate or treat about a purchase.I will buy with you, sell with you. Shak.
BUYER
One who buys; a purchaser.
BUZ
See Buzz. [Obs.]
BUZZ
To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like thatmade by bees with their wings. Hence: To utter a murmuring sound; tospeak with a low, humming voice.Like a wasp is buzzed, and stung him. Longfellow.However these disturbers of our peace Buzz in the people's ears.Shak.
BUZZARD
A bird of prey of the Hawk family, belonging to the genus Buteoand related genera.
BUZZARDET
A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer.
BUZZER
One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer.And wants not buzzers to infect his ear With pestilent speeches ofhis father's death. Shak.
BUZZINGLY
In a buzzing manner; with a buzzing sound.
BUZZSAW
A circular saw; -- so called from the buzzing it makes whenrunning at full speed.
BY
Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, givingthe meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, orcollateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used incomposition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
BY-BIDDER
One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer orowner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles. [U.S.]
BY-CORNER
A private corner.Britain being a by-corner, out of the road of the world. Fuller.
BY-DEPENDENCE
An appendage; that which depends on something else, or isdistinct from the main dependence; an accessory. Shak.
BY-DRINKING
A drinking between meals. [Obs.]
BY-ELECTION
An election held by itself, not at the time of a generalelection.
BY-END
Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage.[Written also bye-end.]"Profit or some other by-end." L'Estrange.
BY-INTEREST
Self-interest; private advantage. Atterbury.
BY-LANE
A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road.
BY-NAME
A nickname. Camden.
BY-PASS
A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divertcirculation from the usual course.
BY-PASSAGE
A passage different from the usual one; a byway.
BY-PAST
Past; gone by. "By-past perils." Shak.
BY-PLACE
A retired or private place.
BY-PRODUCT
A secondary or additional product; something produced, as inthe course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product.
BY-RESPECT
Private end or view; by-interest. [Obs.] Dryden.
BY-ROOM
A private room or apartment. "Stand in some by-room" Shak.
BY-SPEECH
An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to thepoint. "To quote by-speeches." Hooker.
BY-SPELL
A proverb. [Obs.]
BY-STREET
A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way orcross street.He seeks by-streets, and saves the expensive coach. Gay.
BY-STROKE
An accidental or a slyly given stroke.
BY-TURNING
An obscure road; a way turning from the main road. Sir P.Sidney.
BY-VIEW
A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose.No by-views of his own shall mislead him. Atterbury.
BY-WALK
secluded or private walk.He moves afterward in by-walks. Dryden.
BY-WASH
The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert theflow of water.
BY-WIPE
A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm. Milton.
BYARD
A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men whodrag sledges in coal mines.
BYE
A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye. T. Hughes.By the bye, in passing; by way of digression; apropos to the matterin hand. [Written also by the by.]
BYGONE
Past; gone by. "Bygone fooleries." Shak
BYLAND
A peninsula. [Obs.]
BYLANDER
See Bilander.[Obs.]
BYNAME
To give a nickname to. Camden.
BYPATH
A private path; an obscure way; indirect means.God known, my son, By what bypaths, and indirect crooked ways, I metthis crown. Shak.
BYPLAY
Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while themain action proceeds.
BYRE
A cow house. [N. of Eng.& Scot.]
BYROAD
A private or obscure road. "Through slippery byroads" Swift.
BYRONIC
Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron.With despair and Byronic misanthropy. Thackeray
BYSMOTTERED
Bespotted with mud or dirt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
BYSS
See Byssus, n., 1.
BYSSACEOUS
Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some verydelicate filamentous algรฆ.
BYSSIFEROUS
Bearing a byssus or tuft.
BYSSIN
See Byssus, n., 1.
BYSSINE
Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance. Coles.
BYSSOID
Byssaceous.
BYSSOLITE
An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende.
BYSSUS
A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove ofthe foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalvemollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselvesto rocks, etc.
BYSTANDER
One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern withthe business transacting.He addressed the bystanders and scattered pamphlets among them.Palfrey.
BYWAY
A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside fromthe main one. " Take no byways." Herbert.
BYWORK
Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondarybusiness.
BYZANTIAN
See Byzantine.
BYZANTINE
Of or pertaining to Byzantium.-- n.
C
(a) The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which hasneither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note ofthe relative minor scale of the same (b) C after the clef is the markof common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths orcrotchets); for alla breve time it is written (c) The "C clef," amodification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, abowsthat line to be middle C.
CA IRA
The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.
CAABA
The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which allMohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.]
CAADA
A small caรฑon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but lessfrequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.]
CAAS
Case. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CAATINGA
A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found inareas of small rainfall in Brazil.
CAB
A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37)pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25.
CABAL
To unite in a small party to promote private views andinterests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden.
CABALIST
One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewishtraditions. "Studious cabalists." Swift.
CABALISTICALLY
In a cabalistic manner.
CABALIZE
To use cabalistic language. [R] Dr. H. More.
CABALLER
One who cabals.A close caballer and tongue-valiant lord. Dryden.
CABALLERIA
An ancient Spanish land tenure similar to the English knight'sfee; hence, in Spain and countries settled by the Spanish, a landmeasure of varying size. In Cuba it is about 33 acres; in Porto Rico,about 194 acres; in the Southwestern United States, about 108 acres.
CABALLERO
A knight or cavalier; hence, a gentleman.
CABALLINE
Of or pertaining to a horse.-- n.
CABALLO
A horse. [Sp. Amer.]
CABARET
A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed. [Obs. as anEnglish word.]
CABAS
A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flatworkbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Brontรฉ.
CABASSOU
A speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus andX. hispidus); the tatouay. [Written also Kabassou.]
CABBAGE
To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettucecabbage. Johnson.
CABBLER
One who works at cabbling.
CABBLING
The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wroughtiron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated andwrought into bar iron.
CABER
A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial ofstrength.
CABEZON
A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to thesculpin.
CABIAI
The capybara. See Capybara.
CABIN
To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.I'll make you . . . cabin in a cave. Shak.
CABINET
Suitable for a cabinet; small.He [Varnhagen von Ense] is a walking cabinet edition of Goethe. For.Quar. Rev.
CABINETMAKER
One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choicearticles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.
CABINETMAKING
The art or occupation of making the finer articles of householdfurniture.
CABINETWORK
The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniturerequiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.
CABIREAN
,n.One of the Cabiri.
CABIRI
Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by thePelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece;-- also called sons of Hephรฆstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of theart of working metals. [Written also Cabeiri.] Liddell & Scott.
CABIRIAN
Same as Cabiric.
CABIRIC
Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.[Written also Cabiritic.]
CABLE
A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex,rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; --called also cable molding. Bower cable, the cable belonging to thebower anchor.-- Cable road, a railway on which the cars are moved by acontinuously running endless rope operated by a stationary motor.-- Cable's length, the length of a ship's cable. Cables in themerchant service vary in length from 100 to 140 fathoms or more; butas a maritime measure, a cable's length is either 120 fathoms (720feet), or about 100 fathoms (600 feet, an approximation to one tenthof a nautical mile).-- Cable tier. (a) That part of a vessel where the cables arestowed. (b) A coil of a cable.-- Sheet cable, the cable belonging to the sheet anchor.-- Stream cable, a hawser or rope, smaller than the bower cables, tomoor a ship in a place sheltered from wind and heavy seas.-- Submarine cable. See Telegraph.-- To pay out the cable, To veer out the cable, to slacken it, thatit may run out of the ship; to let more cable run out of the hawsehole.-- To serve the cable, to bind it round with ropes, canvas, etc., toprevent its being, worn or galled in the hawse, et.-- To slip the cable, to let go the end on board and let it all runout and go overboard, as when there is not time to weigh anchor.Hence, in sailor's use, to die.
CABLED
Adorned with cabling.
CABLEGRAM
A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.
CABLELAID
Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twistedtogether to form a cable.
CABLET
A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.
CABLING
The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilasterwith reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollowsof the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of theheight of the shaft.
CABMAN
The driver of a cab.
CABOB
To roast, as a cabob. Sir. T. Herbert.
CABOCHED
Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of thehead of a beast in armorial bearing. [Written also caboshed.]
CABOCHON
A stone of convex form, highly polished, but not faceted; also,the style of cutting itself. Such stones are said to be cut encabochon.
CABOODLE
The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usuallyin the phrase the whole caboodle. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.
CABOOSE
A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly calledthe galley.
CABOTAGE
Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.
CABREE
The pronghorn antelope. [Also written cabrit, cabret.]
CABRERITE
An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt,and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.
CABRILLA
A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genusSerranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coastof California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rockbass and kelp salmon.
CABRIOLE
A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.The cabrioles which his charger exhibited. Sir W. Scott.
CABRIOLET
A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.
CABRIT
Same as Cabrรฉe.
CABURN
A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seizetackles, etc.
CACAINE
The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.
CACAJAO
A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (or Brachyurus)melanocephala). [Written also cacajo.]
CACAO
A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America andthe West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seedsabout the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and bromaare prepared.
CACHALOT
The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top ofits head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, afterdeath, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance calledspermaceti. See Sperm whale.
CACHE
A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing andpreserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. Kane.
CACHEPOT
An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal,paper, etc.
CACHET
A seal, as of a letter. Lettre de cachet Etym: [F.], a sealedletter, especially a letter or missive emanating from the sovereign;-- much used in France before the Revolution as an arbitrary order ofimprisonment.
CACHINNATION
Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hystericalor maniacal affections.Hideous grimaces . . . attended this unusual cachinnation. Sir W.Scott.
CACHINNATORY
Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.Cachinnatory buzzes of approval. Carlyle.
CACHIRI
A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of themanioc, and resembling perry. Dunglison.
CACHOLONG
An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also,a similar variety of opal.
CACHOU
A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of thebreath.
CACHUCHA
An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembing the bolero.[Sometimes in English spelled cachuca (.]The orchestra plays the cachucha. Logfellow.
CACHUNDE
A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and otheringredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as astomachic and antispasmodic.
CACIQUE
See Cazique.
CACK
To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope.
CACKEREL
The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish consideredpoisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.
CACKLING
The broken noise of a goose or a hen.
CACODEMON
The nightmare. Dunaglison.
CACODOXICAL
Heretical.
CACODOXY
Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy. [R.]Heterodoxy, or what Luther calls cacodoxy. R. Turnbull.
CACODYL
Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4,spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeableodor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to thenitrogen compounds called hydrazines. [Written also cacodyle, andkakodyl.]
CACODYLIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl. Cacodylic acid, awhite, crystalline, deliquescent substance, (CH3)2AsO.OH, obtained bythe oxidation of cacodyl, and having the properties of an exceedinglystable acid; -- also called alkargen.
CACOETHES
A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.
CACOGASTRIC
Troubled with bad digestion. [R.] Carlyle.
CACOGRAPHIC
Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly writtenor spelled.
CACOGRAPHY
Incorrect or bad writing or spelling. Walpole.
CACOLET
A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back orpack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainousdistricts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of anarmy.
CACOLOGY
Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words. Buchanan.
CACOON
One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entadascandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.
CACOPHONY
An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to theconcurrence of harsh letters or syllables. "Cacophonies of allkinds." Pope.
CACOSTOMIA
Diseased or gangrenous condition of the mouth.
CACOTECHNY
A corruption or corrupt state of art. [R.]
CACTACEOUS
Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which theprickly pear is a common example.
CACTUS
Any plant of the order Cactacรฆ, as the prickly pear and thenight-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stemsand branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostlynatives of the warmer parts of America. Cactus wren (Zoรถl.), anAmerican wren of the genus Campylorhynchus, of several species.
CACUMINAL
Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied tocertain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.
CACUMINATE
To make sharp or pointed. [Obs.]
CADASTRAL
Of or pertaining to landed property. Cadastral survey, orCadastral map, a survey, map, or plan on a large scale (Usuallytopographical map, which exaggerates the dimensions of houses and thebreadth of roads and streams, for the sake of distinctness. Brande &C.
CADAVER
A dead human body; a corpse.
CADAVERIC
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changesproduced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity. Dunglison.Cadaveric alkaloid, an alkaloid generated by the processes ofdecomposition in dead animal bodies, and thought by some to be thecause of the poisonous effects produced by the bodies. See Ptomaine.
CADBAIT
See Caddice.
CADDIS
A kind of worsted lace or ribbon. "Caddises, cambrics, lawns."Shak.
CADDISH
Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.
CADDOW
A jackdaw. [Prov. Eng.]
CADDY
A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.
CADE
Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.He brought his cade lamb with him. Sheldon.
CADENCE
See Cadency.
CADENCY
Descent of related families; distinction between the members ofa family according to their ages. Marks of cadency (Her.), bearingsindicating the position of the bearer as older or younger son, or asa descendant of an older or younger son. See Difference (Her.).
CADENE
A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.McElrath.
CADENT
Falling. [R.] "Cadent tears." Shak.
CADENZA
A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of apiece, commonly just before the final cadence.
CADER
See Cadre.
CADETSHIP
The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get acadetship.
CADGE
A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.
CADGER
One who carries hawks on a cadge.
CADGY
Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also,wanton. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
CADI
An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usuallythe judge of a town or village.
CADILESKER
A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originallybecause his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who arenow tried only by their own officers.
CADILLAC
A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly forcooking. Johnson.
CADIS
A kind of coarse serge.
CADMEAN
Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, whowas said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters ofthe alphabet -- Cadmean letters. Cadmean victory, a victory thatdamages the victors as much as the vanquished; probably referring tothe battle in which the soldiers who sprang from the dragon's teethsown by Cadmus slew each other.
CADMIA
An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces wherezinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.
CADMIAN
See Cadmean.
CADMIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmicsulphide.
CADMIUM
A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring insome zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable.Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.Cadmium yellow, a compound of cadmium and sulphur, of an intenseyellow color, used as a pigment.
CADRANS
An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which theangles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.
CADRE
The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to beformed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff. [Written alsocader.]
CADUCARY
Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.
CADUCEAN
Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.
CADUCEUS
The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messengerof the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olivewood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it,and two wings at the top.
CADUCIBRANCHIATE
With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which thegills do not remain in adult life.
CADUCITY
Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. [R.][A] jumble of youth and caducity. Chesterfield.
CADUCOUS
Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, orthe gills of a tadpole.
CADUKE
Perishable; frail; transitory. [Obs.] Hickes.The caduke pleasures of his world. Bp. Fisher.
CADY
See Cadie.
CAECA
See Cรฆcum.
CAECIAS
A wind from the northeast. Milton.
CAECILIAN
A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Cรฆciliรฆ orOphimorpha. See Ophiomorpha. [Written also coecilian.]
CAELATURA
Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, asreliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc.
CAEN STONE
A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen,France.
CAENOZOIC
See Cenozoic.
CAESAR
A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cรฆsar.Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerfulruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flatteredand courted by Cรฆsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other.Macaulay.
CAESARISM
A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercisedby a single person, to whom, as Cรฆsar or emperor, it has beencommitted by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or supportof such a system of government.
CAESIOUS
Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture ofgray. Lindley.
CAESIUM
A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called fromthe two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the firstelement discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most stronglybasic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight132.6.
CAESPITOSE
Same as Cespitose.
CAESURA
A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a footand commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in themiddle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the cรฆsural accentrests, or which is used as a foot.
CAESURAL
Of or pertaining to a cรฆsura. Cรฆsural pause, a pause made at acรฆsura.
CAFE
A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel orrestaurant where coffee and liquors are served.
CAFETERIA
A restaurant or cafรฉ at which the patrons serve themselves withfood kept at a counter, taking the food to small tables to eat. [U.S.]
CAFFEIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee. Caffeic acid, an acidobtained from coffee tannin, as a yellow crystalline substance,C9H8O4.
CAFFEINE
A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained fromcoffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, andwith guaranine from guarana.
CAFFETANNIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.Caffetannic acid, a variety of tannin obtained from coffee berries,regarded as a glucoside.
CAFFILA
See Cafila.
CAFFRE
See Kaffir.
CAFTAN
A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gownwith sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by abelt or sash.
CAG
See Keg. [Obs.]
CAGE
An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; asthe cage of a staircase. Gwilt.
CAGED
Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "Thecaged cloister." Shak.
CAGELING
A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird. [Poetic]Tennyson.
CAGIT
A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in thePhilippine Islands.
CAGMAG
A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell.
CAGOT
One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They aresupposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.
CAHENSLYISM
A plan proposed to the Pope in 1891 by P. P. Cahensly, a memberof the German parliament, to divide the foreign-born population ofthe United States, for ecclesiastical purposes, according to Europeannationalities, and to appoint bishops and priests of like race andspeaking the same language as the majority of the members of adiocese or congregation. This plan was successfully opposed by theAmerican party in the Church.
CAHINCA ROOT
The root of an American shrub (Chiococca racemosa), found asfar north as Florida Keys, from which cahincic acid is obtained;also, the root of the South American Chiococca anguifuga, acelebrated antidote for snake poison.
CAHINCIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of aspecies of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. recemosa; as, cahincicacid.
CAHOOT
Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person. [Slang,southwestern U. S.] Bartlett.
CAIMACAM
The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.
CAIMAN
See Cayman.
CAINOZOIC
(Geol.) See Cenozic.
CAIQUE
A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, aLevantine vessel of larger size.
CAIRD
A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar. [Prov. Eng.]
CAIRNGORMSTONE
A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, orcrystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, inScotland.
CAISSON
A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits. Pneumatic caisson(Engin.), a caisson, closed at the top but open at the bottom, andresting upon the ground under water. The pressure of air forced intothe caisson keeps the water out. Men and materials are admitted tothe interior through an air lock. See Lock.
CAISSON DISEASE
A disease frequently induced by remaining for some time in anatmosphere of high pressure, as in caissons, diving bells, etc. It ischaracterized by neuralgic pains and paralytic symptoms. It isvariously explained, most probably as due to congestion of internalorgans with subsequent stasis of the blood.
CAITIFF
A captive; a prisoner. [Obs.]Avarice doth tyrannize over her caitiff and slave. Holland.
CAJEPUT
See Cajuput.
CAJOLE
To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.I am not about to cajole or flatter you into a reception of my views.F. W. Robertson.
CAJOLEMENT
The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.Coleridge.
CAJOLER
A flatterer; a wheedler.
CAJOLERY
A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery."Infamous cajoleries." Evelyn.
CAJUN
In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent.
CAJUPUT
A highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled fromthe leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It isgreenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.
CAJUPUTENE
A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.
CAKE
To form into a cake, or mass.
CAKING COAL
See Coal.
CAL
Wolfram, an ore of tungsten. Simmonds.
CALABAR
A district on the west coast of Africa. Calabar bean, The of aclimbing legumious plant (Physostigma venenosum), a native oftropical Africa. It is highly poisonous. It is used to producecontraction of the pupil of the eye; also in tetanus, neuralgia, andrheumatic diseases; -- called also ordeal bean, being used by thenegroes in trials for witchcraft.
CALABARINE
An alkaloid resembing physostigmine and occurring with it inthe calabar bean.
CALABOOSE
A prison; a jail. [Local, U. S.]
CALABOZO
A jail. See Calaboose.
CALADE
A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse ismade to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.
CALADIUM
A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species arecultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiouslyblotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.
CALAITE
A mineral. See Turquoise.
CALAMANCO
A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked. "a gaycalamanco waistcoat." Tatler.
CALAMANDER WOOD
A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is aspecies of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros qusesita. Calledalso Coromandel wood.
CALAMBAC
A fragrant wood; agalloch.
CALAMBOUR
A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottledcolor, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac;-- used by cabinetmakers.
CALAMIFEROUS
Producing reeds; reedy.
CALAMINE
A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.
CALAMINT
A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family,esp. the C. Nepela and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.
CALAMIST
One who plays upon a reed or pipe. [Obs.] Blount.
CALAMISTRATE
To curl or friz, as the hair. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
CALAMISTRATION
The act or process of curling the hair. [Obs.] burton.
CALAMISTRUM
A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs ofcertain spiders (Ciniflonidรฆ), used to curl certain fibers in theconstruction of their webs.
CALAMITE
A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general formof plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rushfamily) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having thestem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.
CALAMUS
The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes thecommon rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.
CALANDO
(Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.
CALAVERAS SKULL
A human skull reported, by Prof. J. D. Whitney, as found in1886 in a Tertiary auriferous gravel deposit, lying below a bed ofblack lava, in Calaveras County, California. It is regarded as verydoubtful whether the skull really belonged to the deposit in which itwas found. If it did, it indicates an unprecedented antiquity forhuman beings of an advanced type.
CALAVERITE
A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; atelluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.
CALC-SINTER
See under Calcite.
CALC-SPAR
Same as Calcite.
CALC-TUFA
See under Calcite.
CALCANEAL
Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.
CALCANEUM
One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the greatbone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.
CALCAR
A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for thecalcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. Ure.
CALCAREO-ARGILLACEOUS
consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceousearths.
CALCAREO-BITUMINOUS
Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen. Lyell.
CALCAREO-SILICEOUS
Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.
CALCAREOUS
Partaking of the nature ofcalcite or calcium carbonate;consisting of, or containg, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.Clcareous spar. See as Calcite.
CALCAREOUSNESS
Quality of being calcareous.
CALCARIFEROUS
Lime-yielding; calciferous
CALCARINE
Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.
CALCAVELLA
A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district ofCarcavelhos. [Written also Calcavellos or Carcavelhos.]
CALCEATED
Fitted with, or wearing, shoes. Johnson.
CALCED
Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced orbarefooted; as the calced Carmelites.
CALCEDON
A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.
CALCEIFORM
Shaped like a plipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper;calceolate.
CALCEOLARIA
A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought fromSouth America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, oftenspotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.
CALCEOLATE
Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.
CALCES
See Calx.
CALCIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.
CALCIFEROUS
Bearing producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.Calciferouse epoch (Geol.), and epoch in the American lower Siluriansystem, immediately succeeding the Cambrian period. The name alludesto the peculiar mixture of calcareous and siliceous characteristicsin many of the beds. See the Diagram under Grology.
CALCIFIC
Calciferous. Specifically: (Zoรถl.) of or pertaining to hteportion of the which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.Huxley.
CALCIFICATION
The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance bythe deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of boneand teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.
CALCIFIED
Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts;calcareous.
CALCIFORM
In the form of chalk or lime.
CALCIFY
To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion ofsalts of lime.
CALCIGENOUS
Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance onbeing oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.
CALCIGEROUS
Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cellsof the teeth.
CALCIMINE
A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering ofa room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zincwhite, and water. [Also spelt kalsomine.]
CALCIMINER
One who calcimines.
CALCINABLE
That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.
CALCINATE
To calcine. [R.]
CALCINATION
The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or renderingit friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of somevolatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonateof calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.
CALCINATORY
A vessel used in calcination.
CALCINE
To be convereted into a powder or friable substance, or into acalx, by the action of heat. "Calcining without fusion" Newton.
CALCINER
One who, or that which, calcines.
CALCISPONGIAE
An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. SeePorifera.
CALCITE
Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral inits crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. Itincludes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-sparand calcareous spar.
CALCITRANT
Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.
CALCITRATE
To kick.
CALCITRATION
Act of kicking.
CALCIUM
An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygenforms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable.It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight40. Symbol Ca.
CALCIVOROUS
Eroding, or eating into, limestone.
CALCOGRAPHER
One who practices calcography.
CALCOGRAPHY
The art of drawing with chalk.
CALCULABLE
That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.
CALCULARY
Of or pertaining to calculi.
CALCULATE
To make a calculation; to forecast caonsequences; to estimate;to compute.The strong passions, whether good or bad, never calculate. F. W.Robertson.
CALCULATING
The act or process of making mathematical computations or ofestimating results.
CALCULATIVE
Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.Long habits of calculative dealings. Burke.
CALCULATOR
One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers theforce and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate ofthe effects.Ambition is no exact calculator. Burke.
CALCULATORY
Belonging to calculation. Sherwood.
CALCULE
Reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Howell.
CALCULI
See Calculus.
CALCULUS
Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but mostfrequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passagesconnected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.
CALDRON
A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Writtenalso cauldron.] "Caldrons of boiling oil." Prescott.
CALECHE
See Calash.
CALEDONIA
The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.
CALEDONIAN
Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.-- n.
CALEDONITE
A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts ofCaledonia or Scotland.
CALEFACIENT
Making warm; heating. [R.]
CALEFACTIVE
See Calefactory. [R.]
CALEFACTOR
A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.
CALEFACTORY
Making hot; producing or communicating heat.
CALEFY
To make warm or hot.
CALEMBOUR
A pun.
CALENDAR
A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints'days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly accordingto the varying date of Easter.
CALENDARIAL
Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.
CALENDARY
Calendarial. [Obs.]
CALENDER
To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth andglossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc. Ure.
CALENDOGRAPHER
One who makes calendars. [R.]
CALENDRER
A person who calenders cloth; a calender.
CALENDS
The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.[Written also kalends.] The Greek calends, a time that will nevercome, as the Greeks had no calends.
CALENDULA
A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendulaofficinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom onthe calends of every month, whence the name.
CALENDULIN
A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from themarigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.
CALENTURE
A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics;esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, amongsailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the seato be a green field, and to throw himself into it.
CALESCENCE
Growing warmth; increasing heat.
CALF
The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee. Calf's-footjelly, jelly made from the feet of calves. The gelatinous matter ofthe feet is extracted by boiling, and is flavored with sugar,essences, etc.
CALFSKIN
The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.
CALI
The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu. [Writtenalso Kali.]
CALIBRATE
To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also,more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of thevarious standards or graduated instruments.
CALIBRATION
The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of athermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees;also, more generally, the determination of the true value of thespaces in any graduated instrument.
CALICE
See Chalice.
CALICO
Made of, or having the apperance of, calico; -- often appliedto an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of acolor strikingly different from its main color. [Colloq. U. S.]
CALICOBACK
Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used forcalycular, calyculate.
CALID
Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey.
CALIDITY
Heat. [Obs.]
CALIDUCT
A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.Subterranean caliducts have been introduced. Evelyn.
CALIFORNIA JACK
A game at cards, a modification of seven-up, or all fours.
CALIFORNIAN
Of or pertaining to California.-- n.
CALIGATION
Dimness; cloudiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
CALIGINOSITY
Darkness. [R.] G. Eliot.
CALIGINOUS
Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure. [R.] Blount.The caliginous regions of the air. Hallywell.-- Ca*lig"i*nous*ly, adv.-- Ca*lig"i*nous*ness, n.
CALIGO
Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on thecornea; also, the speck itself.
CALIGRAPHIC
See Calligraphic.
CALIGRAPHY
See Caligraphy.
CALIN
An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make teacanisters.
CALIPASH
A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. Itcontains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge,much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.
CALIPEE
A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. Itcontains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color,much esteemed as a delicacy. Thackeray.
CALIPERS
An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers orcompasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thicknessof bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts,shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called alsocaliper compasses, or caliber compasses. Caliper square, adraughtsman's or mechanic's square, having a graduated bar andadjustable jaw or jaws. Knight.-- Vernier calipers. See Vernier.
CALIPH
Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammedboth as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans ofTurkey, [Writting also calif.]
CALIPHATE
The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of thecaliphs.
CALIPPIC
Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer. Calippicperiod, a period of seventy-six years, proposed by Calippus, as animprovement on the Metonic cycle, since the 6940 days of the Metoniccycle exceeded 19 years by about a quarter of a day, and exceeded 235lunations by something more.
CALISAYA BARK
A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the CinchonaCalisaya, and other closely related species.
CALISTHENEUM
A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women andchildren.
CALISTHENIC
Of or pertaining to calisthenics.
CALISTHENICS
The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the bodyand limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.
CALIVER
An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originallya gun having a regular size of bore. [Obs.] Shak.
CALIX
A cup. See Calyx.
CALK
To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red orblack chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines,so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which itis laid or held. [Writting also calque]
CALKIN
A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.
CALKING
The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or offurnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing. Calkingiron, a tool like a chisel, used in calking ships, tightening seamsin ironwork, etc.Their left hand does the calking iron guide. Dryden.
CALL
An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as itspastor.
CALLA
A genus of plants, of the order Araceรฆ.
CALLAT
Same as Callet. [Obs.]A callat of boundless tongue. Shak.
CALLE
A kind of head covering; a caul. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CALLER
One who calls.
CALLET
A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip. [Obs.] [Written alsocallat.]
CALLID
Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty. [R.]
CALLIDITY
Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness. [R.]Her eagly-eyed callidity. C. Smart.
CALLIGRAPHER
One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.
CALLIGRAPHIST
A calligrapher
CALLIGRAPHY
Fair or elegant penmanship.
CALLIOPE
The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; motherof Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.
CALLIOPSIS
A popular name given to a few species of the genus Careopsis,especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.
CALLIPASH
See Calipash.
CALLIPEE
See Calipee.
CALLIPERS
See Calipers.
CALLISECTION
Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection. B. G. Wilder.
CALLITHUMP
A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tinhorus, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; acharivari. [U. S.]
CALLITHUMPIAN
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump. [U. S.]
CALLOSAN
Of the callosum.
CALLOSE
Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.
CALLOSITY
A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening andthickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result ofcontinued pressure or friction.
CALLOSUM
The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebralhemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus.
CALLOT
A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte. B. Jonson.
CALLOW
A kind of duck. See Old squaw.
CALLUS
The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exudedat the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous inconsistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unitesthe fragments into a single piece.
CALM
Freodom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation orabeence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds orwaves; tranquility; stilness; quiet; serenity.The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Mark. iv. 39.A calm before a storm is commonly a peace of a man's own making.South.
CALMER
One who, or that which, makes calm.
CALMLY
In a calm manner.The gentle stream which calmly flows. Denham.
CALMNESS
The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity;self-repose.The gentle calmness of the flood. Denham.Hes calmness was the repose of conscious power. E. Everett.
CALMUCKS
; sing. Calmuck. A branch of the Mongolian race inbabitingparts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the languageof the Calmucks. [Written also Kalmucks.]
CALMY
Tranquil; peaceful; calm. [Poet.] "A still and calmy day"Spenser.
CALOMEL
Mild chloride of mercury, Hg
CALORESCENCE
The conversion of obscure radiant heat info kight; thetransmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.Tyndall.
CALORIC
The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena ofheat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used inscientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term forheat.Caloric expands all bodies. Henry.
CALORICITY
A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heatnesessary to life, that is, the animal heat.
CALORIDUCT
A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.
CALORIE
The unit of heat according to the Frensc standard; the amountof heat requires to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes,one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0Foot pound.
CALORIFACIENT
See Calorificient.
CALORIFERE
An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially bymeans of hot water circulating in tubes.
CALORIFIANT
See Calorificient.
CALORIFIC
Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating. Calorificrays, the invisible, heating rays which emanate from the sum, andburning and heated bodies.
CALORIFICATION
Production of heat, esp. animal heat.
CALORIFICIENT
Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- appliedto foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed togive rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.
CALORIMETER
An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained inbodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, asfriction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.
CALORIMETRIC
Of or pertaining to process of using the calorimeter.Satisfactory calorimetric results. Nichol.
CALORIMETRY
Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.
CALORIMOTOR
A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, andproducing powerful heating effects.
CALORISATOR
An apparatus used in beet-sugar factories to heat the juice inorder to aid the diffusion.
CALOTYPE
A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitizedwith iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor,Mr. Fox. Talbot.
CALOYER
A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse ofthe rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos.
CALQUE
See 2d Calk, v. t.
CALUMBA
The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculuspalmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bittertaste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic. [Written also colombo,columbo, and calombo.] American calumba, the Frasera Carolinensis,also called American gentian. Its root has been used in medicine asbitter tonic in place of calumba.
CALUMBIN
A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substancefrom the calumba root. [Written also colombin, and columbin]
CALUMET
A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smokingtobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube isa long reed often ornamented with feathers.Smoked the calumet, the Peace pipe, As a signal to the nations.Lowgfellow.
CALUMNIATE
To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or ofsomething disreputable; to slander; to libel.Hatred unto the truth did always falsely report and calumniate allgodly men's doings. Strype.Syn.-- To asperse; slander; defame; vilify; traduce; belie; bespatter;blacken; libel. See Asperse.
CALUMNIATION
False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and falserepresentation of the words or actions of another, with a view toinjure his good name.The calumniation of her principal counselors. Bacon.
CALUMNIATOR
One who calumniates.
CALUMNIATORY
Containing calumny; slanderous. Montagu.
CALUMNIOUS
Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injuriousto reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes. Shak.
CALUMNY
False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made orreported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation;slander; detraction. "Infamouse calumnies." Motley.Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escapecalumny. Shak.
CALVARIA
The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of thedomelike upper portion.
CALVARY
A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called crosscalvary.
CALVER
To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling'sflesh will calver. Catton.
CALVESSNOUT
Snapdragon.
CALVINISM
The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a Frenchtheologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or ofthe so-called calvinistic churches.
CALVINIST
A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.
CALVINIZE
To convert to Calvinism.
CALVISH
Like a calf; stupid. Sheldon.
CALX
Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- appliedto a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the Frenchbotanist Candolle.
CALYCIFORM
Having the form or appearance of a calyx.
CALYCLE
A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on theoutside.
CALYCLED
Calyculate.
CALYCOZOA
A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The bodyis cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. Anaboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided intofour large compartments. See Lucernarida.
CALYCULAR
Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.
CALYMENE
A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.
CALYON
Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. Haliwell.
CALYPSO
A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flowervariegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wetlocalities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypsoborealis is the only orchid which reaches 68ยบ N.
CALYPTRA
A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form andposition, covering each of the small flaskike capsules which containthe spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.
CALYPTRIFORM
Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.
CALYX
The covering of a flower. See Flower.
CALZOONS
Drawers. [Obs.]
CAM
Crooked. [Obs.]
CAMAIEU
Painting in shades of one color; monochrome. Mollett.
CAMAIL
A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or otherheadpiece.
CAMARADERIE
Comradeship and loyalty.
CAMARASAURUS
A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having largecavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebrรฆ.
CAMASS
A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) ofnorthwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food bythe Indians. [Written also camas, cammas, and quamash.]
CAMBER
An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has ahigh camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).
CAMBERKEELED
Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; --said of a ship.
CAMBIAL
Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange. [R.]
CAMBIST
A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills ofexchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.
CAMBISTRY
The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc.
CAMBIUM
A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood properand inside of the inner bark. The growth of new wood takes place inthe cambium, which is very soft.
CAMBLET
See Camlet.
CAMBOGE
See Gamboge.
CAMBOOSE
See Caboose.
CAMBRASINE
A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from itsresemblance to cambric.
CAMBREL
See Gambrel, n., 2. Wright.
CAMBRIA
The ancient Latin name of Wales. It is used by modern poets.
CAMBRIAN
Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.
CAMBRIC
A Welshman.
CAME
imp. of Come.
CAMEL
A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdensand for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a longtime without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at theextremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on thecallous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on theback, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama,alpaca, and vicuรฑa, of South America, belong to a related genus(Auchenia).
CAMELEON
See Chaceleon. [Obs.]
CAMELLIA
An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves andshowy flowers. Camelia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, andC. Sassanqua and C. Oleifera are grown in China for the oil which ispressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genusunder the name of Camellia Thea.
CAMELOPARD
An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe.
CAMELOT
See Camelet. [Obs.]
CAMELRY
Troops that are mounted on camels.
CAMELSHAIR
Of camel's hair. Camel's-hair pencil, a small brush used bypainters in water colors, made of camel's hair or similar materials.-- Camel's-hair shawl. A name often given to a cashmere shawl. SeeCashmere shawl under Cashmere.
CAMEO
A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewelfor personal adornment, or like.
CAMERA
A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: Thecamera obscura when used in photography. See Camera, and Cameraobscura. Bellows camera. See under Bellows.-- In camera (Law), in a judge's chamber, that is, privately; as, ajudge hears testimony which is not fit for the open court in camera.-- Panoramic, or Pantascopic, camera, a photographic camera in whichthe lens and sensitized plate revolve so as to expose adjacent partsof the plate successively to the light, which reaches it through anarrow vertical slit; -- used in photographing broad landscapes.Abney.
CAMERA LUCIDA
An instrument which by means of a prism of a peculiar form, oran arrangement of mirrors, causes an apparent image of an externalobject or objects to appear as if projected upon a plane surface, asof paper or canvas, so that the outlines may conveniently traced. Itis generally used with the microscope.
CAMERA OBSCURA
An apparatus in which the image of an external object orobjects is, by means of lenses. thrown upon a sensitized plate orsurface placed at the back or an extensible darkened box or chambervariously modifled; -- commonly called simply the camera.
CAMERADE
See Comrade, [Obs.]
CAMERALISTIC
Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue.
CAMERALISTICS
The science of finance or public revenue.
CAMERATION
A vaulting or arching over. [R.]
CAMERLINGO
The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over thepope's household. He has at times possessed great power. [Writtenalso camerlengo and camarlengo.]
CAMERONIAN
A follower of the Rev. Richard Cameron, a Scotch Covenanter ofthe time of Charies II.Cameron and others refused to accept the "indulgence" offered thePresbyterian clergy, insisted on the Solemn league and Covenant, andin 1680 declared Charles II deposed for tyranny, breach of faith,etc. Cameron was killed at the battle of Airdmoss, but his followersbecame a denomination (afterwards called Reformed Presbyterians) whorefused to recognize laws or institutions which they believedcontrary to the kingdom of Christ, but who now avail themselves ofpolitical rights.
CAMIS
A light, loose dress or robe. [Also written camus.] [Obs.]All in a camis light of purple silk. Spenser.
CAMISARD
One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled againstLouis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so calledfrom the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore.
CAMISATED
Dressed with a shirt over the other garments.
CAMLET
A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly ofgoat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton. [Sometimes writtencamelot and camblet.]
CAMLETED
Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined. Sir T. Herbert.
CAMMAS
See Camass.
CAMMOCK
A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; --called also rest-harrow. The Scandix Pecten-Veneris is also calledcammock.
CAMONFLET
A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of anenemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of theminers. Farrow.
CAMORRA
A secret organization formed at Naples, Italy, early in the19th century, and used partly for political ends and partly forpracticing extortion, violence, etc. -- Ca*mor"rist (#), n.
CAMOUSED
Depressed; flattened. [Obs.]Though my nose be cammoused. B. Jonson
CAMOUSLY
Awry. [Obs.] Skelton.
CAMP
A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables arestored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie.[Prov. Eng.]
CAMPAGNA
An open level tract of country; especially "Campagna di Roma."The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.
CAMPAGNOL
A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, whichoften does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on rootsand seeds.
CAMPAIGN
A connected series of military operations forming a distinctstage in a war; the time during which an army keeps the field.Wilhelm.
CAMPAIGNER
One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an oldsoldier; a veteran.
CAMPANA
A church bell.
CAMPANED
Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells.
CAMPANERO
The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird.
CAMPANES
Bells. [R.]
CAMPANIA
Open country. Sir W. Temple.
CAMPANIFORM
Bell-shaped.
CAMPANILE
A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church.Many of the campaniles od Italy are lofty and magnificent atructures.Swift.
CAMPANILIFORM
Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform.
CAMPANOLOGIST
One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer.
CAMPANOLOGY
The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art.
CAMPANULA
A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often ofgreat beauty; -- also called bellflower.
CAMPANULACEOUS
Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants(Camponulaceรฆ) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes theCanterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass.
CAMPANULARIAN
A hydroid of the family ampanularidรฆ, characterized by havingthe polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecรฆ.
CAMPANULATE
Bell-shaped.
CAMPBELLITE
A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples ofChrist. They themselves repudiate the term Campbellite as a nickname.See Christian, 3.
CAMPEACHY WOOD
Logwood.
CAMPER
One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.
CAMPFIGHT
A duel; the decision of a case by a duel.
CAMPHENE
One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor,regarded as modified terpenes.
CAMPHINE
Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and asa common solvent in varnishes.
CAMPHIRE
An old spelling of Camphor.
CAMPHOGEN
See Cymene.
CAMPHOL
See Borneol.
CAMPHOR
To impregnate or wash with camphor; to camphorate. [R.] Tatler.
CAMPHORACEOUS
Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor. Dunglison.
CAMPHORATE
To impregnate or treat with camphor.
CAMPHORIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor. Camphoric acid, awhite crystallizable substance, C10H16O4, obtained from the oxidationof camphor.
CAMPHRETIC
Pertaining to, or derived from camphor. [R.]
CAMPING
A game of football. [Prov. Eng.]
CAMPION
A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearingberries regarded as poisonous. Bladder campion, a plant of the Pinkfamily (Cucubalus Behen or Silene inflata), having a much inflatedcalyx. See Behen.-- Rose campion, a garden plant (Lychnis coronaria) with handsomecrimsome crimson flowers.
CAMPUS
The principal grounds of a college or school, between thebuildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.
CAMPYLOSPERMOUS
Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweetcicely.
CAMPYLOTROPOUS
Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down uponthemselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together.
CAMUS
See Camis. [Obs.]
CAMWOOD
See Barwood.
CAN
an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used inold poetry.
CAN BUOY
See under Buoy, n.
CAN HOOK
A device consisting of a short rope with flat hooks at eachend, for hoisting casks or barrels by the ends of the staves.
CANAANITE
A zealot. "Simon the Canaanite." Matt. x. 4.
CANAANITISH
Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.
CANADA
A British province in North America, giving its name to variousplants and animals. Canada balsam. See under Balsam.-- Canada goose. (Zoรถl.) See Whisky Jack.-- Canada lynx. (Zoรถl.) See Lynx.-- Canada porcupine (Zoรถl.) See Porcupine, and Urson.-- Canada rice (Bot.) See under Rick.-- Canada robin (Zoรถl.), the cedar bird.
CANADIAN
Of or pertaining to Canada.-- n.
CANAKIN
A little can or cup. "And let me the canakin clink." Shak.
CANAL
A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircularcanals of the ear. Canal boat, a boat for use on a canal; esp. one ofpeculiar shape, carrying freight, and drawn by horses walking on thetowpath beside the canal. Canal lock. See Lock.
CANAL COAL
See Cannel coal.
CANALICULUS
A minute canal.
CANALIZATION
Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals. [R.]
CANAPE CONFIDENT
A sofa having a seat at each end at right angles to the mainseats.
CANARD
An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricatedsensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in thenewspapers to hoax the public.
CANARESE
Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India.
CANARY BIRD
To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper. [Obs.]But to jig of a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with yourfeet. Shak.Ca*na"ry bird`. (Zoรถl.)
CANASTER
A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves,coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it ispacked in South America. McElrath.
CANCAN
A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous orextravagant postures and gestures.
CANCEL
To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type. Canceledfigures (Print), figures cast with a line across the face., as foruse in arithmetics.
CANCELIER
To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk. [Obs.] Nares.He makes his stoop; but wanting breath, is forced To cancelier.Massinger.
CANCELLAREAN
Cancellarean. [R.]
CANCELLATE
Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediateparenchyma, as the leaves of certain plant; latticelike.
CANCELLATED
Open or spongy, as some porous bones.
CANCELLATION
The operation of striking out common factora, in both thedividend and divisor.
CANCELLI
The interlacing osseous plates constituting the elastic poroustissue of certain parts of the bones, esp. in their articularextremities.
CANCELLOUS
Having a spongy or porous stracture; made up of cancelli;cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones.
CANCER
A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most commonshore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonahcrab, etc. See Crab.
CANCERATE
To grow into a canser; to become cancerous. Boyle.
CANCERATION
The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into acancer.
CANCERITE
Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer;affected with cancer. "Cancerous vices." G. Eliot.-- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv.-- Can"cer*ous*ness, n.
CANCEROUS
Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer;affected with cancer. "cancerous vices" G. Eliot.[1913 Webster]
CANCRINE
Having the qualities of a crab; crablike.
CANCRINITE
A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive,generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda,and carbon dioxide.
CANCROID
Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of thefamilies of crabs, including the genus Cancer.
CAND
Fluor spar. See Kand.
CANDENT
Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat. "A candent vessel."Boyle.
CANDEROS
An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from whichsmall ornaments and toys are sometimes made.
CANDESCENCE
See Inclandescence.
CANDESCENT
Glowing; luminous; incandescent.
CANDICANT
Growing white. [Obs.]
CANDIDACY
The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate;candidateship.
CANDIDATE
One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as asuitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office,privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; acandidate for holy orders; a candidate for scholastic honors.
CANDIDATESHIP
Candidacy.
CANDIDATING
The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, thepreaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement. [Cant, U. S.]
CANDIDATURE
Candidacy.
CANDIDLY
In a candid manner.
CANDIDNESS
The quality of being candid.
CANDIFY
To make or become white, or candied. [R.]
CANDIOT
Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary.
CANDITE
A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, inCeylon.
CANDLE COAL
See Cannel coal.
CANDLE FOOT
The illumination produced by a British standard candle at adistance of one foot; --used as a unit of illumination.
CANDLE METER
The illumination given by a standard candle at a distance ofone meter; -- used as a unit of illumination, except in GreatBritain.
CANDLE POWER
Illuminating power, as of a lamp, or gas flame, reckoned interms of the light of a standard candle.
CANDLEBERRY TREE
A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common inNorth America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenishwhite wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- alsocalled bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry.
CANDLEHOLDER
One who, or that which, holds a candle; also, one who assistsanother, but is otherwise not of importance. Shak.
CANDLELIGHT
The light of a candle.Never went by candlelight to bed. Dryden.
CANDLEMAS
The second day of February, on which is celebrated the feast ofthe Purification of the Virgin Mary; -- so called because the candlesfor the altar or other sacred uses are blessed on that day.
CANDLESTICK
An instrument or utensil for supporting a candle.
CANDLEWASTER
One who consumes candles by being up late for study ordissipation.A bookworm, a candlewaster. B. Jonson.
CANDOCK
A plant or weed that grows in rivers; a species of ofEquisetum; also, the yellow frog lily (Nuphar luteum).
CANDROY
A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them forprinting.
CANDY
A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boilingsugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing,molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored orcolored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc.
CANDYTUFT
An annual plant of the genus Iberis, cultivated in gardens. Thename was originally given to the I. umbellata, first, discovered inthe island of Candia.
CANEBRAKE
A thicket of canes. Ellicott.
CANED
Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar whencontaining mother. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
CANELLA
A genus of trees of the order Canellaceรฆ, growing in the WestIndies.
CANESCENT
Growing white, or assuming a color approaching to white.
CANGUE
A very broad and heavy wooden collar which certain offenders inChina are compelled to wear as a punishment.
CANICULAR
Pertaining to, or measured, by the rising of the Dog Star.Canicular days, the dog days, See Dog days.-- Canicular year, the Egyptian year, computed from one heliacalrising of the Dog Star to another.
CANICULE
Canicula. Addison.
CANINAL
See Canine, a.
CANINE
Of or pertaining to the pointed tooth on each side theincisors. Canine appetite, a morbidly voracious appetite; bulimia.-- Canine letter, the letter r. See R.-- Canine madness, hydrophobia.-- Canine toth, a toth situated between the incisor and bicuspidteeth, so called because well developen in dogs; usually, the thirdtooth from the front on each side of each jaw; an eyetooth, or thecorresponding tooth in the lower jaw.
CANIS
A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidรฆ, includingthe dogs and wolves. Canis major Etym: [L., larger dog], aconstellation to the southeast of Orion, containing Sirius or the DogStar.-- Canis minor Etym: [L., smaller dog], a constellation to the eastof Orion, containing Procyon, a star of the first magnitude.
CANISTER
A kind of case shot for cannon, in which a number of lead oriron balls in layers are inclosed in a case fitting the gun; --called also canister shot,
CANKER
A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and falloff.
CANKER BLOOM
The bloom or blossom of the wild rose or dog-rose.
CANKER BLOSSOM
That which blasts a blossom as a canker does. [Obs.]O me! you juggler! you canker blossom! You thief of Love! Shak.
CANKER FLY
A fly that preys on fruit.
CANKER RASH
A form of scarlet fever characterized by ulcerated or putridsore throat.
CANKER-BIT
Eaten out by canker, or as by canker. [Obs.]
CANKEREDLY
Fretfully; spitefully.
CANKEROUS
Affecting like a canker. "Canrerous shackles." Thomson.Misdeem it not a cankerous change. Wordsworth.
CANKERWORM
The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are veryinjurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirelydestroying, the foliage. Other similar larvรฆ are also calledcankerworms.
CANNA
A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet.See Cane, 4.
CANNABENE
A colorless oil obtained from hemp dy distillation, andpossessing its intoxicating properties.
CANNABIN
A pisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, varietyIndica). The narcotic effects of hasheesh are due to this resin.
CANNABINE
Pertaining to hemp; hempen. [R.]
CANNABIS
A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceรฆ;hemp. Cannabis Indica (, the Indian hemp, a powerful narcotic, nowconsidered a variety of the common hemp.
CANNEL COAL
A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard andsolid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellowflame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles.
CANNELE
A style of interweaving giving to fabrics a channeled or flutedeffect; also, a fabric woven so as to have this effect; a rep.
CANNELURE
A groove in any cylinder; specif., a groove around the cylinderof an elongated bullet for small arms to contain a lubricant, oraround the rotating band of a gun projectile to lessen the resistanceoffered to the rifling. Also, a groove around the base of acartridge, where the extractor takes hold. --Can"ne*lured (#), a.
CANNERY
A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., iscarried on. [U. S.]
CANNIBAL
A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devoursits own kind. Darwin.
CANNIBALISM
The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence;Murderous cruelty; barbarity. Berke.
CANNIBALLY
In the manner of cannibal. "An he had been cannibally given."Shak.
CANNIKIN
A small can or drinking vessel.
CANNILY
In a canny manner. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]
CANNINESS
Caution; crafty management. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]
CANNON
A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, onwhich it may, however, revolve independently.
CANNON BONE
See Canon Bone.
CANNONADE
To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot.
CANNONED
Furnished with cannon. [Poetic] "Gilbralter's cannoned steep."M. Arnold.
CANNONERING
The use of cannon. Burke.
CANNONRY
Cannon, collectively; artillery.The ringing of bells and roaring of cannonry proclaimed his coursethrough the country. W. Irving.
CANNOT
Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two.
CANNULA
A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for variouspurposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usuallyassociated with a trocar. [Written also canula.]
CANNULAR
Having the form of a tube; tubular. [Written also canular.]
CANNULATED
Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length forwire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle. [Written alsocanulated.]
CANOE
To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe.
CANOEING
The act or art of using a canoe.
CANOEIST
A canoeman.
CANOEMAN
One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe.Cabins and clearing greeted the eye of the passing canoeman. Parkman.
CANON
A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a counciland confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation,code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority.Various canons which were made in councils held in the second centry.Hock.
CANON BIT
That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.
CANON BONE
The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the foreand hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to themiddle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse.
CANONESS
A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter. Regularcanoness, one bound by the poverty, and observing a strict rule oflife.-- Secular canoness, one allowed to hold private property, and boundonly by vows of chastity and obedience so long as she chose to remainin the chapter.
CANONICALLY
; according to the canons.
CANONICALNESS
The quality of being canonical; canonicity. Bp. Burnet.
CANONICALS
The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman whenoficiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress. Fullcanonicals, the complete costume of an officiating clergyman orecclesiastic.
CANONICATE
The office of a canon; a canonry.
CANONICITY
The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with thecanon.
CANONIST
A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge andpractice of ecclesiastical law. South.
CANONISTIC
Of or pertaining to a canonist. "This canonistic exposition."Milton.
CANONIZATION
The final process or decree (following beatifacation) by whichthe name of a deceased person is placed in the catalogue (canon) ofsaints and commended to perpetual veneration and invocation.Canonization of saints was not known to the Christian church titltoward the middle of the tenth century. Hoock.
CANONIZE
To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogueof saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.
CANONRY
A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; aright to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; thedignity or emoluments of a canon.
CANONSHIP
Of pertaining to Canopus in egypt; as, the Canopic vases, usedin embalming.
CANOPUS
A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellationArgo.
CANOPY
To cover with, or as with, a canopy. "A bank with ivycanopied." Milton.
CANOROUS
Melodious; musical. "Birds that are most canorous." Sir T.Browne.A long, lound, and canorous peal of laughter. De Quincey.
CANOROUSNESS
The quality of being musical.He chooses his language for its rich canorousness. Lowell.
CANSTICK
Candlestick. [Obs.] Shak.
CANT
A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask. Knight.
CANT HOOK
A wooden lever with a movable iron hook. hear the end; -- usedfor canting or turning over heavy logs, etc. [U. S.] Bartlett.
CANTAB
A Cantabrigian. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.
CANTABILE
In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposedto bravura, recitativo, or parlando.
CANTABRIAN
Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain.
CANTABRIGIAN
A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduateof the university of Cambridge, England.
CANTALEVER
A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.
CANTALOUPE
A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, ayellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color. [Written alsocantaleup.]
CANTANKEROUS
Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious. [Colloq.] --Can*tan"ker*ous*ly, adv.-- Can*tan"ker*ous*ness, n.The cantankerous old maiden aunt. Theckeray.
CANTATA
A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses,solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner;originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of bothrecitative and melody.
CANTATION
A singing. [Obs.] Blount.
CANTATORY
Caontaining cant or affectation; whining; singing. [R.]
CANTATRICE
A female professional singer.
CANTEL
See Cantle.
CANTER
To move in a canter.
CANTHARIDAL
Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as,cantharidal plaster.
CANTHARIDES
See cantharis.
CANTHARIDIN
The active principe of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, avolatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms.
CANTHARIS
A beetle (Lytta, or Cantharis, vesicatoria), having anelongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseousodor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- alsocalled Spanish fly. Many other species of Lytta, used for the samepurpose, take the same name. See Blister beetle, under Blister. Theplural form in usually applied to the dried insects used in medicine.
CANTHOPLASTY
The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has beendestroyed by injury or disease.
CANTHUS
The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each sideof the eye.
CANTICLE
The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of theOld Testament.
CANTICOY
A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.
CANTILE
Same as Cantle, v. t.
CANTILENA
See Cantabile.
CANTILEVER
Same as Cantalever.
CANTILLATE
To chant; to recite with musical tones. M. Stuart.
CANTILLATION
A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations.
CANTINE
See Canteen.
CANTING
Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical orreligious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; acanting tone. - Cant"ing*ly, adv.-- Cant"ing*ness, n. Canting arms, Canting heraldry (Her.), bearingsin the nature of a rebus alluding to the name of the bearer. Thus,the Castletons bear three castles, and Pope Adrian IV. (NicholasBreakspeare) bore a broken spear.
CANTINIERE
A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandiรจre.
CANTION
A song or verses. [Obs.] Spenser.
CANTLE
To cut in pieces; to cut out from. [Obs.] [Written alsocantile.]
CANTLET
A piece; a fragment; a corner. Dryden.
CANTO
The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music;anciently the tenor, now the soprano. Canto fermo ( Etym: [It.](Mus.), the plain ecclesiastical chant in cathedral service; theplain song.
CANTON
A song or canto [Obs.]Write loyal cantons of contemned love. Shak.
CANTON CRAPE
A soft, white or colored silk fabric, of a gauzy texture andwavy appearance, used for ladies' scarfs, shawls, bonnet trimmings,etc.; -- called also Oriental crape. De Colange.
CANTON FLANNEL
See Cotton flannel.
CANTONAL
Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of acanton.
CANTONED
Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a crosson a shield, and also of the shield itself.
CANTONIZE
To divide into cantons or small districts.
CANTONMENT
A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to abody of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest foran army; quarters.
CANTOON
A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satinysurface on the other.
CANTOR
A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.The cantor of the church intones the Te Deum. Milman.
CANTORAL
Of or belonging to a cantor. Cantoral staff, the official staffor baton of a cantor or precentor, with which time is marked for thesingers.
CANTORIS
Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir;a cantoris stall. Shipley.
CANTY
Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry. "The canty dame."Wordsworth [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]Contented with little, and canty with mair. Burns.
CANUCK
See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.
CANVAS
Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth;as, a canvas tent.
CANVASBACK
A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for thedelicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn;particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named fromthe markings of the plumage on its back.
CANVASS
To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing adistrict; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvassfor a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonlyfollowed by for.
CANVASSER
One who canvasses.
CANY
Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.Milton.
CANYON
The English form of the Spanish word Caรฑon.
CANZONET
A short song, in one or more parts.
CAOUTCHIN
An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained bythe destructive distillation of caoutchouc.
CAOUTCHOUC
A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milkysap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. theeuphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, andAfrica. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readlyaffected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used,especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and inmanufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first broughtfrom India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks)and gum elastic. See Vulcanization. Mineral caoutchouc. See underMineral.
CAOUTCHOUCIN
See Caoutchin.
CAP
The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the billto the nape of the neck.
CAPABLENESS
The quality or state of being capable; capability;adequateness; competency.
CAPACIFY
To quality. [R.]The benefice he is capacified and designed for. Barrow.
CAPACIOUSLY
In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively.
CAPACIOUSNESS
The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir abay, the mind, etc.
CAPACITATE
To render capable; to enable; to qualify.By thih instruction we may be capaciated to observe those errors.Dryden.
CAPACITY
Legal or noral qualification, as of age, residence, character,etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding office, formarrying, for making contracts, will, etc.; legal power or right;competency. Capacity for heat, the power of absorbing heat.Substances differ in the amount of heat requisite to raise them agiven number of thermometric degrees, and this difference is themeasure of, or depends upon, whzt is called their capacity for heat.See Specific heat, under Heat.
CAPAPE
See Cap-a-pie. Shak.
CAPAPIE
From head to foot; at all points. "He was armed cap-a-pie."Prescott.
CAPARRO
A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), withprehensile tail.
CAPCASE
A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest.A capcase for your linen and your plate. Beau. & Fl.
CAPE
A piece or point of land, extending beyind the adjacent coastinto the sea or a lake; a promonotory; a headland. Cape buffalo(Zoรถl.) a large and powerful buffalo of South Africa (BubalusCaffer). It is said to be the most dangerous wild beast of Africa.See Buffalo, 2.-- Cape jasmine, Cape jassamine. See Jasmine.-- Cape pigeon (Zoรถl.), a petrel (Daptium Capense) common off theCape of Good Hope. It is about the size of a pigeon.-- Cape wine, wine made in South Africa [Eng.] -- The Cape, the Capeof Good Hope, in the general sense of southern extremity of Africa.Also used of Cape Horn, and, in New England, of Cape Cod.
CAPEL
A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornlende) in the wallsof tin and copper lodes.
CAPELAN
See Capelin.
CAPELIN
A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the familySalmonidรฆ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland,Newfoundland, and Alaska. It is used as a bait for the cod. [Writtenalso capelan and caplin.]
CAPELINE
A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stumpof an amputated limb.
CAPELLA
A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga.
CAPELLANE
The curate of a chapel; a chaplain. [Obs.] Fuller.
CAPELLE
The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church.
CAPELLET
A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heelof the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying dowm.
CAPELLMEISTER
The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choirmaster.[Written also kepellmeister.]
CAPER
To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; toskip; to spring; to prance; to dance.He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth. Shak.
CAPERBERRY
See Capper, a plant, 2.
CAPERCLAW
To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; toabuse. [Obs.] Birch.
CAPERER
One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances.The nimble capperer on the cord. Dryden.
CAPFUL
As much as will fill a cap. A capful of wind (Naut.), a lightpuff of wind.
CAPIAS
A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body ofthe person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writof capias.
CAPIBARA
See Capybara.
CAPILLACEOUS
Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. SeeCapillary.
CAPILLAMENT
A filament. [R.]
CAPILLARINESS
The quality of being capillary.
CAPILLARITY
The peculiar action by which the surface of a liquid, where itis in contact with a solid (as in a capillary tube), is elevated ordepressed; capillary attraction.
CAPILLARY
A minute, thin-walled vessel; particularly one of the smallestblood vessels connecting arteries and veins, but used also for thesmallest lymphatic and biliary vessels.
CAPILLATION
A capillary blood vessel. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CAPILLATURE
A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair. Clarke.
CAPILLIFORM
In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs.
CAPILLOSE
Having much hair; hairy. [R.]
CAPISTRATE
Hooded; cowled.
CAPITAL
The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. Itconsists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), andnecking. See these terms, and Column.
CAPITALIST
One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or moneyinvested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed inbusiness.The expenditure of the capitalist. Burke.
CAPITALIZATION
The act or process of capitalizing.
CAPITALNESS
The quality of being capital; preeminence. [R.]
CAPITATE
Having the flowers gathered into a head.
CAPITATIM
Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant.
CAPITE
See under Tenant.
CAPITELLATE
Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected intominute capitula.
CAPITIBRANCHIATA
A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or nearthe head. See Tubicola.
CAPITOL
Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome. "Capitolian Jove."Macaulay. Capitoline games (Antiq.), annual games instituted at Romeby Camillus, in honor of Jupter Capitolinus, on account of thepreservation of the Capitol from the Gauls; when reinstituted byDomitian, arter a period of neglect, they were held every fifth year.
CAPITULA
See Capitulum.
CAPITULAR
Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary.From the pope to the member of the capitular body. Milman.
CAPITULARLY
In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter. Sterne.
CAPITULARY
Relating to the chapter of a cathedral; capitular. "Capitularyacts." Warton.
CAPITULATE
To surrender or transfer, as an army or a fortress, on certainconditions. [R.]
CAPITULATOR
One who capitulates.
CAPITULE
A summary. [Obs.]
CAPITULUM
A knobike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a boneor cartilage.
CAPIVI
A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.
CAPLE
See Capel.
CAPLIN
See Capelin.
CAPNOMANCY
Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.
CAPNOMOR
A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained frombeech tar. Watts.
CAPO TASTO
A sort of bar or movable nut, attached to the finger board of aguitar or other  fretted instrument for the purpose of raisinguniformly the pitch of all the strings.
CAPOC
A sort of cotton so short and fine thet it can not be spun,used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc.
CAPOCH
A hood; especialy, the hood attached to the gown of a monk.
CAPON
A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded toimprove his flesh for the table. Shak.The merry thought of a capon. W. Irving.
CAPONET
A young capon. [R.] Chapman.
CAPONIERE
A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from theenemy, or to serve as a covered passageway.
CAPONIZE
To castrate, as a fowl.
CAPORAL
One who directs work; an overseer. [Sp. Amer.]
CAPOT
A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It countsfor forty points. Hoyle.
CAPOTE
A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.
CAPOUCH
Same as Capoch.
CAPPADINE
A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk hasbeen reeled off, used for shag.
CAPPAPER
See cap, n., also Paper, n.
CAPPEAK
The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.
CAPPELINE
A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stumpof an amputated limb.
CAPPELLA
See A cappella.
CAPPING PLANE
A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails.
CAPRA
A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.
CAPRATE
A salt of capric acid.
CAPREOLATE
Having a tendril or tendrils.
CAPREOLINE
Of or pertaining to the roebuck.
CAPRI
Wine produced on the island of Capri, commonly a light, dry,white wine.
CAPRIC
Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives. Capricacid, C9H9.CO2H, Caprylic acid, C7H15.CO2H, and Caproic acid,C5H11.CO2H, are fatty acids occurring in small quantities in butter,cocoanut oil, etc., united with glycerin; they are colorless oils, orwhite crystalline solids, of an unpleasant odor like that of goats orsweat.
CAPRICCIO
A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from thetheme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.
CAPRICE
See Capriccio.
CAPRICIOUS
Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly;freakish; whimsical; changeable. "Capricious poet." Shak. "Capricioushumor." Hugh Miller.A capricious partiality to the Romish practices. Hallam.
CAPRICORN
The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at thewinter solstice, about December 21. See Tropic.The sun was entered into Capricorn. Dryden.
CAPRID
Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat,or genus Capra, is the type.
CAPRIFICATION
The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branchesof the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.
CAPRIFOLE
The woodbine or honeysuckle. Spenser.
CAPRIFOLIACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family ofplants (Caprifoliacรฆ.
CAPRIFORM
Having the form of a goat.
CAPRIGENOUS
Of the goat kind.
CAPRINE
Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols.
CAPRIOLE
A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, withoutadvancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at theheight of the leap.
CAPRIPED
Having feet like those of a goat.
CAPROATE
A salt of caproic acid.
CAPROIC
See under Capric.
CAPRYLATE
A salt of caprylic acid.
CAPRYLIC
See under Capric.
CAPSAICIN
A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicumannuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity.
CAPSHEAF
The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning orfinishing part of a thing.
CAPSICIN
A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species ofcapsicum.
CAPSICINE
A valatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or fromcapsicin.
CAPSICUM
A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dryberries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, bitingtaste, and when ground form the red of Cayenne pepper of commerce.
CAPSIZE
To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body.But what if carrying sail capsize the boat Byron.
CAPSQUARE
A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of acannon, and holds it in place.
CAPSTAN
A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an uprightspindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars orlevers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving orraising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a ropeor cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steampower or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushingon the end of a lever fixed in its socket. [Sometimes spelt Capstern,but improperly.] Capstan bar, one of the long bars or levers by whichthe capstan is worked; a handspike..-- To pawl the capstan, to drop the pawls so that they will catch inthe notches of the pawl ring, and prevent the capstan from turningback.-- To rig the capstan, to prepare the for use, by putting the barsin the sockets.-- To surge the capstan, to slack the tension of the rope or cablewound around it.
CAPSTONE
A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from itssupposed resemblance to a cap.
CAPSULE
a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts orcarpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of thepoppy, the flax, the lily, etc.
CAPSULITIS
Inflammation of a capsule, as that of the crystalline lens.
CAPSULOTOMY
The incision of a capsule, esp. of that of the crystallinelens, as in a cataract operation.
CAPTAIN
To act as captain of; to lead. [R.]Men who captained or accompanied the exodus from existing forms.Lowell.
CAPTAINCY
The rank, post, or commission of a captain. Washington.Captaincy general, the office, power, teritory, or jurisdiction of acaptain general; as, the captaincy general of La Habana (Cuba and itsislands).
CAPTAINRY
Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship.[Obs.]
CAPTATION
A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; acaptivating quality; an attraction. [Obs.]Without any of those dresses, or popular captations, which some menuse in their speeches. Eikon Basilike.
CAPTION
That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment,etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it taken,found, or executed. Bouvier. Wharton.
CAPTIOUSLY
In a captious manner.
CAPTIOUSNESS
Captious disposition or manner.
CAPTIVATE
Taken prisoner; made captive; insnared; charmed.Women have been captivate ere now. Shak.
CAPTIVATING
Having power to captivate or cham; fascinating; as, captivatingsmiles.-- Cap"tiva`ting*ly, adv.
CAPTIVATION
The act of captivating. [R.]The captivation of our understanding. Bp. Hall.
CAPTIVE
To take prisoner; to capture.Their inhabitans slaughtered and captived. Burke.
CAPTOR
One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize.
CAPTURE
To seize or take possession of by force, surprise, orstratagem; to overcome and hold; to secure by effort.Her heart is like some fortress that has been captured. W. Ivring.
CAPUCCIO
A capoch or hood. [Obs.] Spenser.
CAPUCHED
Cover with, or as with, a hood. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CAPUCHIN
A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 byMatteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl orcapoch of St. Francis.A bare-footed and long-bearded capuchin. Sir W. Scott.
CAPUCINE
See Capuchin, 3.
CAPULET
Same as Capellet.
CAPULIN
The Mexican chery (Prunus Capollin).
CAPUT
The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.
CAPYBARA
A large South American rodent (Hydrochรฆrus capybara) Living onthe margins of lakes and rivers. It is the largest extant rodent,being about three feet long, and half that in height. It somewhatresembles the Guinea pig, to which it is related; -- called alsocabiai and water hog.
CAR
The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or theDipper.The Pleiads, Hyads, and the Northern Car. Dryden.
CAR MILE
A mile traveled by a single car, taken as a unit ofcomputation, as in computing the average travel of each car of asystem during a given period.
CAR WHEEL
A flanged wheel of a railway car or truck.
CARABAO
The water buffalo. [Phil. Islands]
CARABID
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or familyCarabidรฆ.-- n.
CARABINE
A carbine.
CARABINEER
A carbineer.
CARABOID
Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus.
CARABUS
A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species. Theydevour many injurious insects.
CARAC
See Carack.
CARACAL
A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa andAsia. Its ears are black externally, and tipped with long blackhairs.
CARACARA
A south American bird of several species and genera, resemblingboth the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers,and are also called carrion buzzards.
CARACK
A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards andPortuguese in the East India trade; a galleon. [Spelt also carrack.]The bigger whale like some huge carrack law. Waller.
CARACOLE
A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or theleft.
CARACOLY
An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferiorquality of jewerly is made.
CARACUL
Var. of Karakul, a kind of fur.
CARAFE
A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called alsocroft.
CARAMBOLA
An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicyfruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry.
CARAMEL
Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained byheating sugar. It is soluble in water, and is used for coloringspirits, gravies, etc.
CARANGOID
Belonging to the Carangidรฆ, a family of fishes allied to themackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilotfish.
CARANX
A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including theyellow or goldon mackerel.
CARAPACE
The thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise,or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.
CARAPATO
A south American tick of the genus Amblyamma. There are severalspecies, very troublesome to man and beast.
CARAPAX
See Carapace.
CARAVANEER
The leader or driver of the camels in caravan.
CARAVANSARY
A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, beinga large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court. [Writtenalso caravanserai and caravansera.]
CARAVEL
A name given to several kinds of vessels.(a) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broadbows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbuscommanded three caravels on his great voyage.(b) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden.(c) A small fishing boat used on the French coast.(d) A Turkish man-of-war.
CARAWAY
A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui). The seedshave an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. They are used incookery and confectionery, and also in medicine as a carminative.
CARBAMIC
Pertaining to an acid so called. Carbamic acid (Chem.), anamido acid, NH2.CO2H, not existing in the free state, but occurringas a salt of ammonium in commercial ammonium carbonate; -- calledalso amido formic acid.
CARBAMIDE
The technical name for urea.
CARBAMINE
An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical. The carbamines areliquids, usually colorless, and of unendurable odor.
CARBANIL
A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor. It is the phenylsalt of isocyanic acid.
CARBAZOL
A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from anilineand other amines.
CARBAZOTATE
A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.
CARBAZOTIC
Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen. Carbazoticacid (Chem.), picric acid. See under Picric.
CARBIDE
A binary compound of carbon with some other element or radical,in which the carbon plays the part of a negative; -- formerly termedcarburet.
CARBIMIDE
The technical name for isocyanic acid. See under Isocyanic.
CARBINE
A short, light musket or rifle, esp. one used by mountedsoldiers or cavalry.
CARBINEER
A soldier armed with a carbine.
CARBINOL
Methyl alcohol, CH3OH; -- also, by extension, any one in thehomologous series of paraffine alcohols of which methyl alcohol isthe type.
CARBOHYDRATE
One of a group of compounds including the sugars, starches, andgums, which contain six (or some multiple of six) carbon atoms,united with a variable number of hydrogen and oxygen atoms, but withthe two latter always in proportion as to form water; as dextrose,C6H12O6.
CARBOHYDRIDE
A hydrocarbon.
CARBOLIC
Pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from coal tarand other sources; as, carbolic acid (called also phenic acid, andphenol). See Phenol.
CARBOLIZE
To apply carbonic acid to; to wash or treat with carbolic acid.
CARBON
An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which ispresent in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. itis combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, andenters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state itconstitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring inmonometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification isgraphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs inhexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbondioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, accordingto the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it formsvarious compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite.Carbon compounds, Compounds of carbon (Chem.), those compoundsconsisting largely of carbon, commonly produced by animals andplants, and hence called organic compounds, though their synthesismay be effected in many cases in the laboratory.The formation of the compounds of carbon is not dependent upon thelife process. I. Remsen-Carbon dioxide, Carbon monoxide. (Chem.) See under Carbonic.-- Carbon light (Elec.), an extremely brilliant electric lightproduced by passing a galvanic current through two carbon points keptconstantly with their apexes neary in contact.-- Carbon point (Elec.), a small cylinder or bit of gas carbon movedforward by clockwork so that, as it is burned away by the electriccurrent, it shall contantly maintain its proper relation to theopposing point.-- Carbon tissue, paper coated with gelatine and pigment, used inthe autotype process of photography. Abney.-- Gas carbon, a compact variety of carbon obtained as anincrustation on the interior of gas retorts, and used for themanufacture of the carbon rods of pencils for the voltaic, arc, andfor the plates of voltaic batteries, etc.
CARBON PROCESS
A printing process depending on the effect of light onbichromatized gelatin. Paper coated with a mixture of the gelatin anda pigment is called carbon paper or carbon tissue. This is exposedunder a negative and the film is transferred from the paper to someother support and developed by washing (the unexposed portions beingdissolved away). If the process stops here it is called singletransfer; if the image is afterward transferred in order to give anunreversed print, the method is called double transfer.
CARBON STEEL
Steel deriving its qualities from carbon chiefly, without thepresence of other alloying elements; --opposed to alloy steel.
CARBON TRANSMITTER
A telephone transmitter in which a carbon contact is used.
CARBONACEOUS
Pertaining to, containing, or composed of, carbon.
CARBONADO
A black variety of diamond, found in Brazil, and used fordiamond drills. It occurs in irregular or rounded fragments, rarelydistinctly crystallized, with a texture varying from compact toporous.
CARBONARISM
The principles, practices, or organization of the Carbonari.
CARBONARO
A member of a secret political association in Italy, organizedin the early part of the nineteenth centry for the purpose ofchanging the government into a republic.
CARBONATATION
The saturation of defecated beet juice with carbonic acid gas.Knight.
CARBONATE
A salt or carbonic acid, as in limestone, some forms of leadore, etc.
CARBONATED
Combined or impregnated with carbonic acid.
CARBONE
To broil. [Obs.] "We had a calf's head carboned". Pepys.
CARBONIC
Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonicoxide. Carbonic acid (Chem.), an acid H2CO3, not existing separately,which, combined with positive or basic atoms or radicals, formscarbonates. On common language the term is very generally applied toa compound of carbon and oxygen, CO2, more correctly called carbondioxide. It is a colorless, heavy, irrespirable gas, extinguishingflame, and when breathed destroys life. It can be reduced to a liquidand solid form by intense pressure. It is produced in thefermentation of liquors, and by the combustion and decomposition oforganic substances, or other substances containing carbon. It isformed in the explosion of fire damp in mines, and is hance calledafter damp; it is also know as choke damp, and mephilic air. Waterwill absorb its own volume of it, and more than this under pressure,and in this state becomes the common soda water of the shops, and thecarbonated water of natural springs. Combined with lime itconstitutes limestone, or common marble and chalk. Plants imbibe itfor their nutrition and growth, the carbon being retained and theoxygen given out.-- Carbonic oxide (Chem.), a colorless gas, CO, of a light odor,called more correctly carbon monoxide. It is almost the onlydefinitely known compound in which carbon seems to be divalent. It isa product of the incomplete combustion of carbon, and is an abundantconstituent of water gas. It is fatal to animal life, extinguishescombustion, and burns with a pale blue flame, forming carbon dioxide.
CARBONIDE
A carbide. [R.]
CARBONIFEROUS
Producing or containing carbon or coal. Carboniferous age(Geol.), the age immediately following the Devonian, or Age offishes, and characterized by the vegatation which formed the coalbeds. This age embraces three periods, the Subcarboniferous, theCarboniferous, and Permian. See Age of acrogens, under Acrogen.-- Carboniferous formation (Geol.), the series of rocks (includingsandstones, shales, limestones, and conglomerates, with beds of coal)which make up the strata of the Carboniferous age or period. See theDiagram under Geology.
CARBONITE
An explosive consisting essentially of nitroglycerin, woodmeal, and some nitrate, as that of sodium.
CARBONIZATION
The act or process of carbonizing.
CARBONOMETER
An instrument for detecting and measuring the amount of carbonwhich is present, or more esp. the amount of carbon dioxide, by itsaction on limewater or by other means.
CARBONYL
The radical (CO)'\'b7, occuring, always combined, in manycompounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride,etc.
CARBORUNDUM
A beautiful crystalline compound, SiC, consisting of carbon andsilicon in combination; carbon silicide. It is made by heating carbonand sand together in an electric furnace. The commercial article isdark-colored and iridescent. It is harder than emery, and is used asan abrasive.
CARBOSTYRIL
A white crystalline substance, C9H6N.OH, of acid propertiesderived from one of the amido cinnamic acids.
CARBOXIDE
A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some elementor radical; as, potassium carboxide. Potassium carboxide, a grayishexplosive crystalline compound, C6O6K, obtained by passing carbonmonoxide over heated potassium.
CARBOXYL
The complex radical, CO.OH, regarded as the essential andcharacteristic constituent which all oxygen acids of carbon (asformic, acetic, benzoic acids, etc.) have in common; -- called alsooxatyl.
CARBOY
A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass,inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonlyfor carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc.
CARBUNCLE
A beautiful gem of a deep red color (with a mixture of scarlet)called by the Greeks anthrax; found in the East Indies. When held upto the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and becomes of the color ofburning coal. The name belongs for the most part to ruby sapphire,though it has been also given to red spinel and garnet.
CARBUNCULAR
Belonging to a carbuncle; resembling a carbuncle; red;inflamed.
CARBUNCULATION
The blasting of the young buds of trees or plants, by excessiveheat or caold. Harris.
CARBURET
A carbide. See Carbide [Archaic]
CARBURETANT
Any volatile liquid used in charging illuminating gases.
CARBURETED
Combined with carbon in the manner of a carburet or carbide.
CARBURETOR
An apparatus in which coal gas, hydrogen, or air is passedthrough or over a volatile hydrocarbon, in order to confer orincrease illuminating power. [Written also carburettor.]
CARBURIZATION
The act, process, or result of carburizing.
CARBURIZE
To combine wtih carbon or a carbon compound; -- said esp. of aprocess for conferring a higher degree of illuminating power oncombustible gases by mingling them with a vapor of valatilehydrocarbons.
CARCAJOU
The wolverence; -- also applied, but erroneously, to the Canadalynx, and sometimes to the American badger. See Wolverene.
CARCANET
A jeweled chain, necklace, or collar. [Also written carkenetand carcant.] Shak.
CARCASE
See Carcass.
CARCASS
A hollow case or shell, filled with combustibles, to be thrownfrom a mortar or howitzer, to set fire to buldings, ships, etc.A discharge of carcasses and bombshells. W. Iving.
CARCAVELHOS
A sweet wine. See Calcavella.
CARCEL LAMP
A French mechanical lamp, for lighthouses, in which asuperbundance of oil is pumped to the wick tube by clockwork.
CARCELAGE
Prison fees. [Obs.]
CARCERAL
Belonging a prison. [R.] Foxe.
CARCINOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to carcinology.
CARCINOLOGY
The depertment of zoรถlogy which treats of the Crustacea(lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology andcrustaceology.
CARCINOMA
A cancer. By some medical writers, the term is applied to anindolent tumor. See Cancer. Dunglison.
CARCINOMATOUS
Of or pertaining to carcinoma.
CARCINOSYS
The affection of the system with cancer.
CARD
A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads,making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard.
CARDAMINE
A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock,cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc.
CARDAMOM
A plant which prduces cardamoms, esp. Elettaria Cardamomum andseveral of Amommum.
CARDBOARD
A stiff compact pasteboard of various qualities, for makingcards, etc., often having a polished surface.
CARDCASE
A case for visiting cards.
CARDECU
A quarter of a crown. [Obs.]The bunch of them were not worth a cardecu. Sir W. Scott.
CARDER
One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc. Shak.
CARDIAC
Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiacarteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach.
CARDIACAL
Cardiac.
CARDIACLE
A pain about the heart. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CARDIAGRAPH
See Cardiograph.
CARDIGAN JACKET
A warm jacket of knit worsted with or without sleeves.
CARDINAL
Of fundamental importance; preรซminet; superior; chief;principal.The cardinal intersections of the zodiac. Sir T. Browne.Impudence is now a cardinal virtue. Drayton.But cardinal sins, and hollow hearts, I fear ye. Shak.Cardinal numbers, the numbers one, two, three, etc., in distinctionfrom first, second, third, etc., which are called ordinal numbers.-- Cardinal points (a) (Geol.) The four principal points of thecompass, or intersections of the horizon with the meridian and theprime vertical circle, north, south east, and west. (b) (Astrol.) Therising and setting of the sun, the zenith and nadir.-- Cardinal signs (Astron.) Aries, Lidra, Cancer, and Capricorn.-- Cardinal teeth (Zoรถl.), the central teeth of bivalve shell. SeeBivalve.-- Cardinal veins (Anat.), the veins in vertebrate embryos, whichrun each side of the vertebral column and returm the blood to theheart. They remain through life in some fishes.-- Cardinal virtues, preรซminent virtues; among the ancients,prudence, justice, temperance, and fortitude.-- Cardinal winds, winds which blow from the cardinal points duenorth, south, east, or west.
CARDINALATE
The office, rank, or dignity of a cardinal.
CARDINALIZE
To exalt to the office of a cardinal. Sheldon.
CARDINALSHIP
The condition, dignity, of office of a cardinal
CARDIOGRAM
The curve or tracing made by a cardiograph.
CARDIOGRAPH
An instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest,will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity ofthe heart's movements.
CARDIOGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to, or produced by, a cardiograph.
CARDIOID
An algebraic curve, so called from its resemblance to a heart.
CARDIOINHIBITORY
Checking or arresting the heart's action.
CARDIOLGY
The science which treats of the heart and its functions.
CARDIOMETRY
Measurement of the heart, as by percussion or auscultation.
CARDIOSCLEROSIS
Induration of the heart, caused by development of fibroustissue in the cardiac muscle.
CARDIOSPHYGMOGRAPH
A combination of cardiograph and shygmograph.
CARDITIS
Inflammation of the fleshy or muscular substance of the heart.See Endocardris and Pericarditis. Dunglison.
CARDOL
A yellow oil liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashewnut.
CARDOON
A large herbaceos plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to theartichoke; -- used in cookery and as a sald.
CARE
To be anxious or solictous; to be concerned; to have regard orinterest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure.I would not care a pin, if the other three were in. Shak.Master, carest thou not that we perish Mark. iv. 38.To care for. (a) To have under watchful attention; to take care of.(b) To have regard or affection for; to like or love.He cared not for the affection of the house. Tennyson.
CARE-TUNED
Weary; mournful.  Shak.
CAREEN
To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on oneside, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairsbelow the water line; to case to be off the keel.
CAREER
The fight of a hawk.
CAREFULLY
In a careful manner.
CAREFULNESS
Quality or state of being careful.
CARELESSLY
In a careless manner.
CARELESSNESS
The quality or state of being careless; heedlessness;negligenece; inattention.
CARENE
A fast of forty days on bread and water. [Obs.]
CARESS
An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; anembracing, or touching, with tenderness.Wooed her with his soft caresses. Langfellow.He exerted himself to win by indulgence and caresses the hearts ofall who were under his command. Macaulay.
CARESSINGLY
In caressing manner.
CARET
A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate thatsomething is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, whichbelongs in the place marked by the caret.
CARETUNED
Weary; mournful. Shak.
CAREWORN
Worn or burdened with care; as, careworn look or face.
CAREX
A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceousplants of the order Cypreaceรฆ; the sedges.
CARF
pret. of Carve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CARGASON
A cargo. [Obs.]
CARGO
The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods,merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load;freight.Cargoes of food or clothing. E. Everett.
CARGOOSE
A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe.
CARIAMA
A large, long-legged South American bird (Dicholophuscristatus) which preys upon snakes, etc. See Seriema.
CARIB
A native of the Caribbee islands or the coaste of the Caribbeansea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of SouthAmerica, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West Indiaislands.
CARIBBEE
A Carib.
CARIBE
A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo ofmany species, remakable for its voracity. When numerous they attackman or beast, often with fatal results.
CARIBOU
The American reindeer, especially the common or woodlandspecies (Rangifer Caribou). Barren Ground caribou. See under Barren.-- Woodland caribou, the common reindeer (Rangifer Caribou) of thenorthern forests of America.
CARICATURE
To make or draw a caricature of; to represent with ridiculousexaggeration; to burlesque.He could draw an ill face, or caricature a good one, with a masterlyhand. Lord Lyttelton.
CARICATURIST
One who caricatures.
CARICOUS
Of the shape of a fig; as, a caricous tumor. Graig.
CARIES
Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates andis carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in whichit dies in masses.
CARILLON
A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or byfinger keys.
CARINA
A keel.(a) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals,commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification.(b) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat.
CARINARIA
A genus of oceanic heteropod Mollusca, having a thin, glassy,bonnet-shaped shell, which covers only the nucleus and gills.
CARINATAE
A grand division of birds, including all existing flying birds;-- So called from the carina or keel on the breastbone.
CARIOPSIS
See Caryopsis.
CARIOSITY
Caries.
CARIOUS
Affected with caries; decaying; as, a carious tooth.
CARK
A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry. [Archaic.]His heavy head, devoid of careful cark. Spenser.Fling cark and care aside. Motherwell.Ereedom from the cares of money and the cark of fashion. R. D.Blackmore.
CARKANET
A carcanet. Southey.
CARKING
Distressing; worrying; perplexing; corroding; as, carkingcares.
CARL
A kind of food. See citation, below.Caring or carl are gray steeped in water and fried the next day inbutter or fat. They are eaten on the second Sunday before Easter,formerly called Carl Sunday. Robinson's Whitby Glossary (1875).
CARLIN
An old woman. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
CARLINE THISTLE
A prickly plant of the genus Carlina (C. vulgaris), found inEurope and Asia.
CARLINGS
Same as Carl, 3. Carling Sunday, a Sunday in Lent when carlsare eaten. In some parts of England, Passion Sunday. See Carl, 4.
CARLIST
A parisan of Charles X. Of France, or of Dod Carlos of Spain.
CARLOCK
A sort of Russian isinglass, made from the air bladder of thesturgeon, and used in clarifying wine.
CARLOT
A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman. [Obs.] Shak.
CARLOVINGIAN
Pertaining to, founded by, of descended from, Charlemagne; as,the Carlovingian race of kings.
CARMAN
A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, acar or car.
CARMELITE
A friar of a mendicant order (the Order of Our Lady of MountCarmel) established on Mount Carmel, in Syria, in the twelfthcentury; a White Friar.
CARMINATED
Of, relating to, or mixed with, carmine; as, carminated lake.Tomlinson.
CARMINATIVE
Expelling wind from the body; warning; antispasmodic."Carmenative hot seeds." Dunglison.
CARMINE
The essential coloring principle of cochineal, extracted as apurple-red amorphous mass. It is a glucoside and possesses acidproperties; -- hence called also carminic acid. Carmine red (Chem.),a coloring matter obtained from carmine as a purple-red substance,and probably allied to the phthaleรฏns.
CARMINIC
Of or pertaining to, or derived from, carmine. Carminic acid.Same as Carmine, 3.
CARMOT
The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to becomposed.
CARNAL-MINDED
Worldly-minded.
CARNAL-MINDEDNESS
Grossness of mind.
CARNALISM
The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism. [R.]
CARNALIST
A sensualist. Burton.
CARNALITY
The state of being carnal; fleshly lust, or the indulgence oflust; grossness of mind.Because of the carnality of their hearts. Tillotson.
CARNALIZE
To make carnal; to debase to carnality.A sensual and carnalized spirit. John Scott.
CARNALLITE
A hydrous chloride of potassium and magnesium, sometimes foundassociated with deposits of rock salt.
CARNALLY
According to the flesh, to the world, or to human nature; in amanner to gratify animal appetites and lusts; sensually.For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded islife and peace. Rom. viii. 6.
CARNARY
A vault or crypt in connection with a church, used as arepository for human bones disintered from their original burialplaces; a charnel house.
CARNASSIAL
Adapted to eating flesh.-- n.
CARNATE
Invested with, or embodied in, flesh.
CARNATION
Those parts of a picture in which the human body or any part ofit is represented in full color; the flesh tints.The flesh tints in painting are termed carnations. Fairholt.
CARNATIONED
Having a flesh color.
CARNAUBA
The Brazilian wax palm. See Wax palm.
CARNELIAN
A variety of chalcedony, of a clear, deep red, flesh red, orreddish white color. It is moderately hard, capable of a good polish,and often used for seals.
CARNEOUS
Consisting of, or like, flesh; carnous; fleshy. "Carneousfibers." Ray.
CARNEY
A disease of horses, on which the mouth is so furred that theafflicted animal can not eat.
CARNIC
Of or pertaining to flesh; specif. (Physiol. Chem.),
CARNIFEX
The public executioner at Rome, who executed persons of thelowest rank; hence, an executioner or hangman.
CARNIFICATION
The act or process of turning to flesh, or to a substanceresembling flesh.
CARNIFY
To form flesh; to become like flesh. Sir M. Hale.
CARNIN
A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract ofmeat, and related to xanthin.
CARNIVORA
An order of Mammallia including the lion, tiger, wolf bear,seal, etc. They are adapted by their structure to feed upon flesh,though some of them, as the bears, also eat vegetable food. The teethare large and sharp, suitable for cutting flesh, and the jawspowerful.
CARNIVORACITY
Greediness of appetite for flesh. [Sportive.] Pope.
CARNIVORE
One of the Carnivora.
CARNIVOROUS
Eating or feeding on flesh. The term is applied: (a) to animalswhich naturally seek flesh for food, as the tiger, dog, etc.; (b) toplants which are supposed to absorb animal food; (c) to substanceswhich destroy animal tissue, as caustics.
CARNOSITY
A fleshy excrescence; esp. a small excrescence or fungousgrowth. Wiseman.
CAROB
An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in thecountries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; --called also carob tree.
CAROCHE
A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach. [Obs.]To mount two-wheeled caroches. Butler.
CAROCHED
Placed in a caroche. [Obs.]Beggary rides caroched. Massenger.
CAROIGNE
Dead body; carrion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CAROL
To sing; esp. to sing joyfully; to warble.And carol of love's high praise. Spenser.The gray linnets carol from the hill. Beattie.
CAROLIN
A former gold coin of Germany worth nearly five dollars; also,a gold coin of Sweden worth nearly five dollars.
CAROLINA PINK
See Pinkboot.
CAROLINE
A coin. See Carline.
CAROLING
A song of joy or devotion; a singing, as of carols. Coleridge.Such heavenly notes and carolings. Spenser.
CAROLINIAN
A native or inhabitant of north or South Carolina.
CAROLITIC
Adorned with sculptured leaves and branches.
CAROLUS
An English gold coin of the value of twenty or twenty-threeshillings. It was first struck in the reign of Charles I.Told down the crowns and Caroluses. Macawlay.
CAROM
A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contactwith two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more ballswith the player's ball. In England it is called cannon.
CAROMEL
See Caramel.
CAROTEEL
A tierce or cask for dried fruits, etc., usually about 700 lbs.Simmonds.
CAROTIC
Carotid; as, the carotic arteries.
CAROTID
One of the two main arteries of the neck, by which blood isconveyed from the aorta to the head.
CAROTIN
A red crystallizable tasteless substance, extracted from thecarrot.
CAROTTE
A cylindrical roll of tobacco; as, a carotte of perique.
CAROUSAL
A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse.The swains were preparing for a carousal. Sterne.
CAROUSE
To drink deeply or freely in compliment; to take in a carousal;to engage in drunken revels.He had been aboard, carousing to his mates. Shak.
CAROUSER
One who carouses; a reveler.
CAROUSING
That carouses; relating to a carouse.
CAROUSINGLY
In the manner of a carouser.
CARP
A fresh-water herbivorous fish (Cyprinus carpio.). Severalother species of Cyprinus, Catla, and Carassius are called carp. SeeCruclan carp.
CARPAL
Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist.-- n.
CARPALE
One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; esp. one of theseries articulating with the metacarpals.
CARPATHIAN
Of or pertaining to a range of mountains in Austro-Hungary,called the Carpathians, which partially inclose Hungary on the north,east, and south.
CARPELLARY
Belonging to, forming, or containing carpels.
CARPENTER
An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder ofhouses, ships, etc.
CARPENTERING
The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of workingintimber; carpentry.
CARPER
One who carps; a caviler. Shak.
CARPET
To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; tofurnish with a carpet or carpets.Carpeted temples in fashionable squares. E. Everett.
CARPETBAG
A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originallymade of carpet.
CARPETBAGGER
An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seekingprivate gain or political advancement in the southern part of theUnited States after the Civil War (1865). [U. S.]
CARPETING
1. The act of covering with carpets.
CARPETLESS
Without a carpet.
CARPETWAY
A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field.Ray.
CARPHOLOGY
See Flaccillation.
CARPING
Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious.-- Carp"ing*ly, adv.
CARPINTERO
A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted forits habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees. Theacorns become infested by insect larvรฆ, which, when grown, areextracted for food by the bird.
CARPOGENIC
Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed.
CARPOLITE
A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed.
CARPOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to carpology.
CARPOLOGIST
One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology.
CARPOLOGY
That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seedsand fruit.
CARPOPHAGOUS
Living on fruits; fruit-consuming.
CARPOPHORE
A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between thecarpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants.
CARPOPHYLL
A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of afruit; a carpel.
CARPOPHYTE
A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result offertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc.
CARPOSPORE
A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algรฆ.-- Car`po*spor"ic (, a.
CARPUS
The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, orantibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eightshort bones disposed in two rows.
CARRACK
See Carack.
CARRANCHA
The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called inimitation of its notes.
CARRAWAY
See Caraway.
CARREL
See Quarrel, an arrow.
CARRIABLE
Capable of being carried.
CARRIAGEABLE
Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages. [R.]Ruskin.
CARRIBOO
See Caribou.
CARRICK
A carack. See Carack. Carrick bend (Naut.), a kind of knot,used for bending together hawsers or other ropes.-- Carrick bitts (Naut.), the bitts which support the windlass.Totten.
CARRIER
That which drives or carries; as: (a) A piece whichcommunicates to an object in a lathe the motion of the face plate; alathe dog. (b) A spool holder or bobbin holder in a braiding machine.(c) A movable piece in magazine guns which transfers the cartridge toa position from which it can be thrust into the barrel. Carrierpigeon (Zoรถl.), a variety of the domestic pigeon used to conveyletters from a distant point to to its home.-- Carrier shell (Zoรถl.), a univalve shell of the genus Phorus; --so called because it fastens bits of stones and broken shells to itsown shell, to such an extent as almost to conceal it.-- Common carrier (Law.) See under Common, a.
CARRION
Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding oncarrion.A prey for carrion kites. Shak.Carrion beetle (Zoรถl.), any beetle that feeds habitually on deadanimals; -- also called sexton beetle and burying beetle. There aremany kinds, belonging mostly to the family Silphidรฆ.-- Carrion buzzard (Zoรถl.), a South American bird of several speciesand genera (as Ibycter, Milvago, and Polyborus), which act asscavengers. See Caracara.-- Carrion crow, the common European crow (Corvus corone) whichfeeds on carrion, insects, fruits, and seeds.
CARROL
See 4th Carol.
CARROM
See Carom.
CARROMATA
In the Philippines, a light, two-wheeled, boxlike vehicleusually drawn by a single native pony and used to convey passengerswithin city limits or for traveling. It is the common publiccarriage.
CARRON OIL
A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an applicationto burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works inScotland.
CARRONADE
A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw alarge projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose ofbreaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at,as the side of a ship. It has no trunnions, but is supported on itscarriage by a bolt passing through a loop on its under side.
CARROT
An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of manyvarieties.
CARROTY
Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given toreddish yellow hair, etc.
CARROW
A strolling gamester. [Ireland] Spenser.
CARRY
To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as ahare. Johnson. To carry on, to behave in a wild, rude, or rompingmanner. [Colloq.]
CARRYALL
A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for fouror more persons, usually drawn by one horse.
CARRYING
The act or business of transporting from one place to another.Carrying place, a carry; a portage.-- Carrying trade, the business of transporting goods, etc., fromone place or country to another by water or land; freighting.We are rivals with them in . . . the carrying trade. Jay.
CARRYK
A carack. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CARRYTALE
A talebearer. [R.] Shak.
CARSE
Low, fertile land; a river valley. [Scot.] Jomieson.
CART
To carry burdens in a cart; to follow the business of a carter.
CARTBOTE
Wood to which a tenant is entitled for making and repairingcarts and other instruments of husbandry.
CARTE BLANCHE
A blank paper, with a person's signature, etc., at the bottom,given to another person, with permission to superscribe whatconditions he pleases. Hence: Unconditional terms; unlimitedauthority.
CARTE QUARTE
A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of thehand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary'sright breast.
CARTEL
An agreement between belligerents for the exchange ofprisoners. Wilhelm.
CARTESIAN
Of or pertaining to the French philosopher Renรฉ Descartes, orhis philosophy.The Cartesion argument for reality of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.Cartesian coรถrdinates (Geom), distance of a point from lines orplanes; -- used in a system of representing geometric quantities,invented by Descartes.-- Cartesian devil, a small hollow glass figure, used in connectionwith a jar of water having an elastic top, to illustrate the effectof the compression or expansion of air in changing the specificgravity of bodies.-- Cartesion oval (Geom.), a curve such that, for any point of thecurve mr + m'r' = c, where r and r' are the distances of the pointfrom the two foci and m, m' and c are constant; -- used by Descartes.
CARTESIANISM
The philosophy of Descartes.
CARTHAGINIAN
Of a pertaining to ancient Carthage, a city of northern Africa.-- n.
CARTHAMIN
A red coloring matter obtained from the safflower, or Carthamustinctorius.
CARTHUSIAN
A member of an exceeding austere religious order, founded atChartreuse in France by St. Bruno, in the year 1086.
CARTILAGE
A translucent, elastic tissue; gristle.
CARTILAGINEOUS
See Cartilaginous. Ray.
CARTILAGINIFICATION
The act or process of forming cartilage. Wright.
CARTILAGINOUS
Having the skeleton in the state of cartilage, the bonescontaining little or no calcareous matter; said of certain fishes, asthe sturgeon and the sharks.
CARTIST
In Spain and Portugal, one who supports the constitution.
CARTMAN
One who drives or uses a cart; a teamster; a carter.
CARTOGRAM
A map showing geographically, by shades or curves, statisticsof various kinds; a statistical map.
CARTOGRAPHER
One who make charts or maps.
CARTOGRAPHICALLY
By cartography.
CARTOGRAPHY
The act business of forming chart's or maps.
CARTOMANCY
The act of telling fortunes with cards.
CARTON
Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box. Cartonpierre (, a species of papier-machรฉ, imitating stone or bronzesculpture. Knight.
CARTOONIST
One skilled in drawing cartoons.
CARTOUCH
An oval figure on monuments, and in papyri, containing the nameof a sovereign.
CARTRIDGE
A complete charge for a firearm, contained in, or held togetherby, a case, capsule, or shell of metal, pasteboard, or othermaterial. Ball cartridge, a cartridge containing a projectile.-- Blank cartrige, a cartridge without a projectile, -- Center-firecartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate occupies an axialposition usually in the center of the base of the capsule, instead ofbeing contained in its rim. In the Prussian needle gun the fulminateis applied to the middle of the base of the bullet. Rim-firecartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate is contained in a rimsurrounding its base.-- Cartridge bag, a bag of woolen cloth, to hold a charge for acannon.-- Cartridge belt, a belt having pocket for cartridges.-- Cartridge box, a case, usually of leather, attached to a belt orstrap, for holding cartridges.-- Cartridge paper. (a) A thick stout paper for inclosingcartridges. (b) A rough tinted paper used for covering walls, andalso for making drawings upon.
CARTULARY
Defn:
CARTWAY
A way or road for carts.
CARTWRIGHT
An artificer who makes carts; a cart maker.
CARUCAGE
A tax on every plow or plowland.
CARUCATE
A plowland; as much land as one team can plow in a year and aday; -- by some said to be about 100 acres. Burrill.
CARUS
Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.
CARVACROL
A thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste anddisagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui).
CARVE
A carucate. [Obs.] Burrill.
CARVELBUILT
Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lappingas in a clinker-built vessel.
CARVEN
Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved. [Poetic]A carven bowl well wrought of beechen tree. Bp. Hall.The carven cedarn doors. Tennyson.A screen of carven ivory. Mrs. Browning.
CARVENE
An oily substance, C10H16, extracted from oil caraway.
CARVIST
A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on thehand; a hawk in its first year. Booth.
CARVOL
One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol.
CARYATID
(Arch.) A draped female figure supporting an entablature, inthe place of a column or pilaster.
CARYATIDES
Caryatids.
CARYOPHYLLIN
A tasteless and odorless crystalline substance, extracted fromcloves, polymeric with common camphor.
CARYOPHYLLOUS
Caryophyllaceous.
CARYOPSIS
A one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranouspericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed areincorporated in one body, forming a single grain, as of wheat,barley, etc.
CASA
A house or mansion. [Sp. Amer. & Phil. Islands]
CASAL
Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending.
CASCABEL
The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually aknob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In oldwriters it included all in rear of the base ring.
CASCADE
A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; awaterfall less than a cataract.The silver brook . . . pours the white cascade. Longjellow.Now murm'ring soft, now roaring in cascade. Cawper.
CASCADE METHOD
A method of attaining successively lower temperatures byutilizing the cooling effect of the expansion of one gas incondensing another less easily liquefiable, and so on.
CASCADE SYSTEM
A system or method of connecting and operating two inductionmotors so that the primary circuit of one is connected to thesecondary circuit of the other, the primary circuit of the latterbeing connected to the source of supply; also, a system of electrictraction in which motors so connected are employed. The cascadesystem is also called tandem, or concatenated, system; the connectiona cascade, tandem, or concatenated, connection, or a concatenation;and the control of the motors so obtained a tandem, or concatenation,control. In the cascade system of traction the cascade connection isused for starting and for low speeds up to half speed. For full speedthe short-circuited motor is cut loose from the other motor and iseither left idle or (commonly) connected direct to the line.
CASCALHO
A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in whichthe Brazilian diamond is usually found.
CASCARA BUCKTHORN
The buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshiana) of the Pacific coast of theUnited States, which yields cascara sagrada.
CASCARA SAGRADA
Holy bark; the bark of the California buckthorn (RhamnusPurshianus), used as a mild cathartic or laxative.
CASCARILLA
A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also,its aromatic bark. Cascarilla bark (or Cascarila) (Med.), the bark ofCroton Eleutheria. It has an aromatic odor and a warm, spicy, bittertaste, and when burnt emits a musky odor. It is used as a gentletonic, and sometimes, for the sake of its fragrance, mixed withsmoking tobacco, when it is said to occasion vertigo andintoxication.
CASCARILLIN
A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil ofcascarilla.
CASCARON
Lit., an eggshell; hence, an eggshell filled with confetti tobe thrown during balls, carnivals, etc. [Western U. S.]
CASE
A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holdingtype.
CASE SHOT
A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case orcanister.
CASE SYSTEM
The system of teaching law in which the instruction isprimarily a historical and inductive study of leading or selectedcases, with or without the use of textbooks for reference andcollateral reading.
CASEATION
A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.
CASEHARDENING
The act or process of converting the surface of iron intosteel. Ure.
CASEIC
OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid.
CASEIN
A proteid substance present in both the animal and thevegetable kingdom. In the animal kindom it is chiefly found in milk,and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in thevegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds ofleguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin.[Written also caseine.]
CASEMATE
A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may beplaced, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being usedas a magazine, or for quartering troops.
CASEMATED
Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate.Campbell.
CASEMENT
A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side ofthe frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window.A casement of the great chamber window. Shak.
CASEMENTED
Having a casement or casements.
CASEOSE
A soluble product (proteose) formed in the gastric andpancreatic digestion of casein and caseinogen.
CASEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualitiesof cheese; cheesy. Caseous degeneration, a morbid process, inscrofulous or consumptive persons, in which the products ofinflammation are converted into a cheesy substance which is neitherabsorbed nor organized.
CASERN
A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near therampart; barracks. Bescherelle.
CASEUM
Same as Casein.
CASEWORM
A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice.
CASH
A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paidout; a money box. [Obs.]This bank is properly a general cash, where every man lodges hismoney. Sir W. Temple.ยฃ20,000 are known to be in her cash. Sir R. Winwood.
CASH RAILWAY
A form of cash carrier in which a small carrier or car travelsupon a kind of track.
CASH REGISTER
A device for recording the amount of cash received, usuallyhaving an automatic adding machine and a money drawer and exhibitingthe amount of the sale.
CASHBOOK
A book in which is kept a register of money received or paidout.
CASHEW
A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which thesumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized inall tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at theextremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three incheslong. Casbew nut, the large, kidney-shaped fruit of the cashew, whichis edible after the caustic oil has been expelled from the shell byroasting the nut.
CASHIER
One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who hascharge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of abank or a mercantile company.
CASHIERER
One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer ofmonarchs. [R.] Burke.
CASHMERETTE
A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface likecashmere.
CASHOO
See Catechu.
CASINGS
Dried dung of cattle used as fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Waterland.
CASK
To put into a cask.
CASKET
A gasket. See Gasket.
CASQUE
A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without avizor) for the head and neck; a helmet.His casque overshadowed with brilliant plumes. Prescott.
CASS
To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.[Obs.] Sir W. Raleing.
CASSADA
See Cassava.
CASSAREEP
A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihotutilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated byboiling, and flavored with aromatics. See Pepper pot.
CASSATE
To render void or useless; to vacate or annul. [Obs.]
CASSATION
The act of annulling.A general cassation of their constitutions. Motley.Court of cassation, the highest court of appeal in France, which haspower to quash (Casser) or reverse the decisions of the inferiorcourts.
CASSAVA
A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, withfleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.
CASSAVA WOOD
A West Indian tree (Turpinia occidentalis) of the familyStaphyleaceรฆ.
CASSE PAPER
Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream.
CASSE-TETE
A small war club, esp. of savages; -- so called because of itssupposed use in crushing the skull.
CASSEROLE
A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.
CASSETTE
Same as Seggar.
CASSIA
A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of manyspecies, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves ofseveral species furnish the senna used in medicine.
CASSICAN
An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlingsand orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspendednest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to thepiping crow, an Australian bird.
CASSIDEOUS
Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet-shaped upper petal, as in aconite.
CASSIMERE
A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.[Written also kerseymere.]
CASSINETTE
A cloth with a cotton wart, and a woof of very fine wool, orwool and silk.
CASSINIAN OVALS
See under Oval.
CASSINO
A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually fortwenty-one points. Great cassino, the ten of diamonds.-- Little cassino, the two of spades.
CASSIOBERRY
The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows fromVirginia to Florida.
CASSIOPEIA
A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated betweenCapheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, afabuolous king of Ethiopia. Cassiopeia's Chair, a group of six stars,in Cassiopeia, somewhat resembling a chair.
CASSITERITE
Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring intetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantineluster; also massive, sometimes in compact forms with concentricfibrous structure resembling wood (wood tin), also in rolledfragments or pebbly (Stream tin). It is the chief source of metallictin. See Black tin, under Black.
CASSIUS
A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of somecompounds of tin upon certain salts of gold. It is used in paintingand staining porcelain and glass to give a beautiful purple color.Commonly called Purple of Cassius.
CASSOCK
A garment resembling a long frock coat worn by the clergy ofcertain churches when officiating, and by others as the usually outergarment.
CASSOCKED
Clothed with a cassock.
CASSOLETTE
a box, or vase with a perforated cover to emit perfumes.
CASSONADE
Raw sugar; sugar not refined. Mc Elrath.
CASSOWARY
A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies.It is smaller and stouter than the ostrich. Its head is armed with akind of helmet of horny substance, consisting of plates overlappingeach other, and it has a group of long sharp spines on each wingwhich are used as defensive organs. It is a shy bird, and runs withgreat rapidity. Other species inhabit New Guinea, Australia, etc.
CAST
To stereotype or electrotype.
CAST IRON
Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blastfurnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wroughtiron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, andsometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus,silica, etc.
CAST STEEL
See Cast steel, under Steel.
CAST-IRON
Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy;unyielding.
CAST-OFF
Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes.
CASTALIAN
Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain ofinspiration on Mt. Parnassus sacred to the Muses. Milton.
CASTANEA
A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnutand chinquapin.
CASTANET
See Castanets.
CASTANETS
Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped likespoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middlefinger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment totheir dance and guitars.
CASTAWAY
Of no value; rejected; useless.
CASTELLAN
A goveror or warden of a castle.
CASTELLANY
The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdictionappertaining to a castle.
CASTELLATION
The act of making into a castle.
CASTIGATOR
One who castigates or corrects.
CASTIGATORY
Punitive in order to amendment; corrective.
CASTILE SOAP
A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with oliveand soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap.
CASTILLAN
Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain.
CASTLE
To move the castle to the square next to king, and then theking around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purposeof covering the king.
CASTLE-GUARD
A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance ofa castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it;castle-ward.
CASTLEBUILDER
Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionaryschemes.-- Cas"tle*build`ing, n.
CASTLED
Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castledheight or crag.
CASTLERY
The government of a castle. Blount.
CASTLET
A small castle. Leland.
CASTLEWARD
Same as Castleguard.
CASTLING
That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.Sir T. Browne.
CASTOR
A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.
CASTOR AND POLLUX
See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint.
CASTOR BEAN
The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, orPalma Christi.)
CASTOR OIL
A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds ofthe Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil isinodorus and insipid. Castor-oil plant. Same as Palma Christi.
CASTOREUM
A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong,penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and externalgenitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as anantispasmodic, and by perfumers.
CASTORIN
A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.
CASTRAMETATION
The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of acamp.
CASTRATION
The act of castrating.
CASTRATO
A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voicefor singing; an artificial, or male, soprano. Swift.
CASTREL
See Kestrel.
CASTRENSIAL
Belonging to a camp. Sir T. Browne.
CASTRENSIAN
Castrensial. [R.]
CASUAL
One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which hedoes not belong; a vagrant.
CASUALISM
The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance.
CASUALIST
One who believes in casualism.
CASUALLY
Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance;occasionally.
CASUALNESS
The quality of being casual.
CASUALTY
Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, ordesertion. Casualty ward, A ward in a hospital devoted to thetreatment of injuries received by accident.
CASUARINA
A genus of leafles trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets ofa rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them arelarge, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, calledbeefwood from its color.
CASUIST
One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry.The judment of any casuist or learned divine concerning the state ofa man's soul, is not sufficient to give him confidence. South.
CASUS
An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination ofcircumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident.Casus belli, an event or combination of events which is a cause war,or may be alleged as a justification of war.-- Casus fortuitus, an accident against which due prudence could nothave provided. See Act of God, under Act.-- Casus omissus, a case not provided for by the statute.
CAT
An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. Thedomestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus)is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the namewild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wildcat, and Tiger cat.
CAT-EYED
Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark.
CAT-HARPIN
See Cat-harping.
CAT-HARPING
One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in theshrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.
CAT-HOLE
One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, throughwhich hawsers may be passed.
CAT-RIGGED
Rigged like a catboat.
CAT-SALT
A sort of salt, finely granulated, formed out of the bittern orleach brine.
CAT-SILVER
Mica. [Archaic]
CAT-TAIL
A tall rush or flag (Typha latifolia) growing in marshes, withlong, glat leaves, and having its flowers in a close cylindricalspike at the top of the stem. The leaves are frequently used forseating chairs, making mats, etc. See Catkin.
CATA
The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as aprefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposedto, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes dropsthe final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath,as in cathartic, catholic.
CATABAPTIST
One who opposes baptism, especially of infants. [Obs.] Featley.
CATABASION
A vault under altar of a Greek church.
CATABIOTIC
Aee under Force.
CATACAUSTIC
Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curveformed by reflection. See Caustic, a. Nichol.
CATACHRESIS
A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or bywhich a word is wrested from its true signification; as, "To takearms against a sea of troubles. " Shak. "Her voice was but the shadowof a sound." Young.
CATACLASM
A breaking asunder; disruption.
CATACLYSM
Any violent catastrophe, involving sudden and extensive changesof the earth's surface.
CATACLYSMIST
One who believes that the most important geological phenomenahave been produced by cataclysms.
CATACOMB
A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used forthe burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.
CATACOUSTIC
That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds orechoes See Acoustics. Hutton.
CATACROTIC
Designating, pertaining to, or characterized by, that form ofpulse tracing, or sphygmogram, in which the descending portion of thecurve is marked by secondary elevations due to two or more expansionsof the artery in the same beat. -- Ca*tac"rotism (#), n.
CATADICROTISM
Quality or state of being catacrotic. -- Cat`a*di*crot"ic (#),a.
CATADIOPTRICS
The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of theused of catadioptric instruments.
CATADROME
A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights.
CATADROMOUS
Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachisthan the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching inferns, and opposed to anadromous.
CATAFALCO
See Catafalque.
CATAFALQUE
A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnitiesof eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, ortheir conveyance to the place of burial.
CATAGMATIC
Having the quality of consolidating broken bones.
CATAIAN
A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term ofreproach. Shak.
CATALAN
Of or pertaining to Catalonia.-- n.
CATALECTIC
Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfectfoot; as, a catalectic verse.
CATALEPTIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected withcatalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit.
CATALLACTA
A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphรฆra is the type. Theyexist both in a myxopod state, with branched pseudopodia, and in theform of ciliated bodies united in free, spherical colonies.
CATALLACTICS
The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.
CATALOG
Catalogue.
CATALOGIZE
To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue. [R.]Coles.
CATALOGUE
A list or enumeration of names, or articles arrangedmethodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of thestudents of a college, or of books, or of the stars. Card catalogue,a catalogue, as of books, having each item entered on a separatecard, and the cards arranged in cases by subjects, or authors, oralphabetically.-- Catalogue raisonnรฉ Etym: [F.], a catalogue of books, etc.,classed according to their subjects. Syn.-- List; roll; index; schedule; enumeration; inventory. See List.
CATALOGUER
A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making ofcatalogues.
CATALPA
A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the bestknow species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental NorthAmerican tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods,and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indianbean.
CATALYTIC
Relating to, or causing, catalysis. "The catalytic power is illunderstood." Ure. Catalytic force, that form of chemical energyformerly supposed to determine catalysis.
CATAMENIA
The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses.
CATAMENIAL
Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges.
CATAMITE
A boy kept for unnatural purposes.
CATAMOUNT
The cougar. Applied also, in some parts of the United States,to the lynx.
CATANADROMOUS
Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, asthe salmon; anadromous. [R.]
CATAPASM
A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkleon ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc. Dunglison.
CATAPELTIC
Of or pertaining to a catapult.
CATAPETALOUS
Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to theirbases, as in the mallow.
CATAPHONIC
Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic.
CATAPHONICS
That branch of acoustics which treats of reflested sounds;catacoustics.
CATAPHRACT
Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for thehorse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some easternnations.
CATAPHRACTED
Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; orwith that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard,callous skin, etc.
CATAPHRACTIC
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract.
CATAPHYSICAL
Unnatural; contrary to nature. [R.]Some artists . . . have given to Sir Walter Scott a pile of foreheadwhich is unpleassing and cataphysical. De Quincey.
CATAPLASM
A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part ofthe body; a poultice. Dunglison.
CATAPLEXY
A morbid condition caused by an overwhelming shock or extremefear and marked by rigidity of the muscles. -- Cat`a*plec"tic (#), a.
CATAPUCE
Spurge. [Obs.]
CATAPULT
An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by theancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.
CATARACT
An opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, whichprevents the passage of the rays of light and impairs or destroys thesight.
CATARACTOUS
Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract.
CATARRH
An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in whichthere are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity andquality of mucus secreted; as catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of thebladder.
CATARRHAL
Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of thenature of catarrh.
CATARRHINE
One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including theOld World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together andturned downward. See Monkey.
CATARRHOUS
Catarrhal. [R.]
CATASTALTIC
Checking evacutions through astringent or styptic qualities.
CATASTASIS
That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which theorator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.
CATASTERISM
A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars.The catasterisms of Eratosthenes. Whewell.
CATASTROPHE
A violent and widely extended change in the surface of theearth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected byinternal causes. Whewell.
CATASTROPHIC
Of a pertaining to a catastrophe. B. Powell.
CATASTROPHISM
The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crusthave been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; --opposed to the doctrine of uniformism.
CATASTROPHIST
One who holds the theory or catastrophism.
CATAWBAS
; sing. Catawba. (Ethnol.) An appalachian tribe of Indianswhich originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and thehead waters of the Santee.
CATBIRD
An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to themocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of otherbirds, but less perfectly. Its note resembles at times the mewing ofa cat.
CATBOAT
A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward aspossible, carring a sail extended by a graff and long boom. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
CATCALL
A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses toexpress dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrumentfor making such a noise.Upon the rising of the curtain. I was very much surprised with thegreat consort of catcalls which was exhibited. Addison.
CATCH
Passing opportunities seized; snatches.It has been writ by catches with many intervals. Locke.
CATCH CROP
Any crop grown between the rows of another crop or intermediatebetween two crops in ordinary rotation in point of time. -- Catch"-crop`ping, n.
CATCH TITLE
A short expressive title used for abbreviated book lists, etc.
CATCH-BASIN
A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutterdischarges into a sewer, to oatch bulky matters which would not passreadly throught the sewer. Knight.
CATCH-MEADOW
meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the sideof hill.
CATCHABLE
Capable of being caught. [R.]
CATCHDRAIN
A dich or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surfacewater; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surpluswater.
CATCHER
The player who stands behind the batsman to catch the ball.
CATCHFLY
A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts,covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere. Thespecies of Silene are examples of the catchfly.
CATCHING
The act of seizing or taking hold of Catching bargain (Law), abargain made with an heir expectant for the purchase of hisexpectancy at an inadequate price. Bouvier.
CATCHMENT
A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collectedinto a reservoir.
CATCHPENNY
Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from theignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show.-- n.
CATCHPOLL
A bailiff's assistant.
CATCHWATER
A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain.
CATCHWEED
See Cleavers.
CATCHWEIGHT
Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as,to ride catchweight.
CATCHWORD
The first word of any page of a book after the first, insertedat the right hand bottom corner of the preceding page for theassistance of the reader. It is seldom used in modern printing.
CATCHWORK
A work or artificial watercourse for throwing water on landsthat lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain.
CATE
Food. [Obs.] See Cates.
CATECHETICALLY
In a catechetical manner; by question and answer.
CATECHETICS
The science or practice of instructing by questions andanswers.
CATECHIN
One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white,crystaline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.
CATECHISATION
The act of catechising.
CATECHISER
One who catechises.
CATECHISMAL
Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questionsand answers; catechical.
CATECHIST
One who instructs by question and answer, especially inreligions matters.
CATECHIZE
See Catechise.
CATECHU
A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction andevaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growingin India. It contains a large portion of tannin or tannic acid, andis used in medicine and in the arts. It is also known by the namesterra japonica, cutch, gambier, etc. Ure. Dunglison.
CATECHUIC
Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin.
CATECHUMEN
One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrinesof Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officiallyrecognized as a Christian, and admitted to instruction preliminary toadmission to full membership in the church.
CATECHUMENATE
The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during whichone is a catechumen.
CATECHUMENICAL
Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenicalinstructions.
CATECHUMENIST
A catechumen. Bp. Morton.
CATEGOREMATIC
Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of aword.
CATEGORICALLY
Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirmcategorically.
CATEGORICALNESS
The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute. A.Marvell.
CATEGORIST
One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies.Emerson.
CATEGORIZE
To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue.
CATEGORY
One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge orthought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in asystem; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament.The categories or predicaments -- the former a Greek word, the latterits literal translation in the Latin language -- were intended byAristotle and his followers as an enumeration of all things capableof being named; an enumeration by the summa genera i.e., the mostextensive classes into which things could be distributed. J. S. Mill.
CATEL
Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, orincome."For loss of catel may recovered be, But loss of tyme shendeth us,"quod he. Chaucer.
CATELECTRODE
The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery. Faraday.
CATELECTROTONIC
Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus.
CATELECTROTONUS
The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in theregion of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of acurrent of electricity through it.
CATENA
A chain or series of things connected with each other.I have . . . in no case sought to construct those catenรฆ of games,which it seems now the fashion of commentators to link together. C.J. Ellicott.
CATENARY
The curve formed by a rope or chain of uniform density andperfect flexibility, hanging freely between two points of suspension,not in the same vertical line.
CATENATE
To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain. E. Darwin.
CATENATION
Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regularor connected series. See Concatenation. Sir T. Browne.
CATENULATE
Chainlike; -- said both or color marks and of indentations whenarranged like the links of a chain, as on shells, etc.
CATER
A provider; a purveyor; a caterer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CATER-CORNERED
Diagonal. [Colloq.]
CATER-COUSIN
A remote relation. See Quater-cousin. Shak.
CATERAN
A Highland robber: a kind of irregular soldier. [Scot.] Sir W.Scott.
CATERER
One who caters.The little fowls in the air have God for Their provider and caterer.Shelton.
CATERESS
A woman who caters. Milton.
CATERPILLAR
The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect;sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, asthe sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars. The truecaterpillars have three pairs of true legs, and several pairs ofabdominal fleshy legs (prolegs) armed with hooks. Some are hairy,others naked. They usually feed on leaves, fruit, and succulentvegetables, being often very destructive, Many of them are popularlycalled worms, as the cutworm, cankerworm, army worm, cotton worm,silkworm.
CATERWAUL
To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensivenoise. Coleridge.
CATERWAULING
The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like thecry of cats. Shak.
CATERY
The place where provisions are deposited. [Obs.]
CATES
Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food;delicacies; dainties. Shak.Cates for which Apicius could not pay. Shurchill.Choicest cates and the fiagon's best spilth. R. Browning.
CATFALL
A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead. Totten.
CATFISH
A name given in the United States to various species ofsiluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat(Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stonecat (Noturus flavus); the sea cat (Arius felis), etc. This name isalso sometimes applied to the wolf fish. See Bullhrad.
CATHARINE WHEEL
See catherine wheel.
CATHARIST
One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like thanothers about him; -- applied to persons of various sects. SeeAlbigenses.
CATHARSIS
A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of themouth, bowels, etc.
CATHARTIC
A medicine that promotes alvine discharges; a purge; apurgative of moderate activity.
CATHARTIN
The bitter, purgative principle of senna. It is a glucosidewith the properties of a weak acid; -- called also cathartic acid,and cathartina.
CATHAY
China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have beenintroduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar namefor North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.)Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson.
CATHEAD
A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, towhich the anchor is hoisted and secured.
CATHEDRA
The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person inhigh authority. Ex cathedra Etym: [L., from the chair], in theexercise of one's office; with authority.The Vatican Council declares that the Pope, is infallible "when hespeaks ex cathedra." Addis & Arnold's Cath. Dict.
CATHEDRAL
The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it thebishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne.
CATHEDRALIC
Cathedral. [R.]
CATHEDRATED
Relating to the chair or office of a teacher. [Obs.]
CATHERETIC
A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and otherexcrescences. Dunglison.
CATHERINE WHEEL
Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine-wheel window.
CATHETER
The name of various instruments for passing along mucouscanals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced intothe bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine. Eustachiancatheter. See under Eustachian.-- Prostatic catheter, one adapted for passing an enlarged prostate.
CATHETERIZE
To operate on with a catheter. Dunglison.
CATHETOMETER
An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differencesof height; esp. of the differences in the height of the uppersurfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the samecolumn at different times. It consists of a telescopic levelingapparatus (d), which slides up or down a perpendicular metallicstandard very finely graduated (bb). The telescope is raised ordepressed in order to sight the objects or surfaces, and thedifferences in vertical height are thus shown on the graduatedstandard. [Written also kathetometer.]
CATHETUS
One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, thecatheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides thatinclude the right angle. Barlow.
CATHODE
The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric currentleaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at whichthe electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negativepole; -- opposed to anode. Faraday. Cathode ray (Phys.), a kind ofray generated at the cathode in a vacuum tube, by the electricaldischarge.
CATHODIC
A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent course of thenervous infuence. Marshall Hall.
CATHOLICAL
Catholic. [Obs.]
CATHOLICIZE
To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic.
CATHOLICLY
In a catholic manner; generally; universally. Sir L. Cary.
CATHOLICNESS
The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity.
CATHOLICON
A remedy for all diseases; a panacea.
CATHOLICOS
The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides atEtchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, andconsecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, andPersia, including the Patriarchs of Constantinople, Jerusalem, andSis.
CATILINARIAN
Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resemblingCatiline's conspiracy.
CATION
An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decompositionis evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion. Faraday.
CATKIN
An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slenderaxis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in thewillow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut,oak, hickory, etc.-- so called from its resemblance to a cat's tail. See Illust. ofAment.
CATLIKE
Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly.
CATLING
A double-edged, sharp-pointed dismembering knife. [Spelt alsocatlin.] Crobb.
CATLINITE
A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indiansfor their pipes.
CATO-CATHARTIC
A remedy that purges by alvine discharges.
CATONIAN
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the stern old Roman, Cato theCensor; severe; inflexible.
CATOPRON
See Catopter.
CATOPTRICS
That part of optics which explants the properties and phenomenaof reflected light, and particularly that which is reflected frommirrors or polished bodies; --- formerly caled anacamptics.
CATOPTROMANCY
A species of divination, which was perforned by letting down amirror into water, for a sick person to look at his face in it. Ifhis countenance appeared distorted and ghastly, it was an ill omen;if fresh and healthy, it was favorable.
CATPIPE
See Catcall.
CATSKILL PERIOD
The closing subdivision of the Devonian age in America. Therocks of this period are well developed in the Catskill mountains,and extend south and west under the Carboniferous formation. See theDiagram under Geology.
CATSO
A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
CATSTICK
A stick or club employed in the game of ball called cat ortipcat. Massinger.
CATSTITCH
To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch.
CATSUP
Same as Catchup, and Ketchup.
CATTISH
Catlike; feline Drummond.
CATTLE
Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including alldomestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, andswine. Belted cattle, Black cattle. See under Belted, Black.-- Cattle guard, a trench under a railroad track and alongside acrossing (as of a public highway). It is intended to prevent cattlefrom getting upon the track.-- cattle louse (Zoรถl.), any species of louse infecting cattle.There are several species. The Hรฆmatatopinus eurysternus and H.vituli are common species which suck blood; Trichodectes scalariseats the hair.-- Cattle plague, the rinderpest; called also Russian cattle plague.-- Cattle range, or Cattle run, an open space through which cattlemay run or range. [U. S.] Bartlett.-- Cattle show, an exhibition of domestic animals with prizes forthe encouragement of stock breeding; -- usually accompanied with theexhibition of other agricultural and domestic products and ofimplements.
CATTY
An East Indian Weight of 11/3 pounds.
CAUCUS
A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of personsbelonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or toselect delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regardingmeasures of party policy; a political primary meeting.This day learned that the caucus club meets, at certain times, in thegarret of Tom Dawes, the adjutant of the Boston regiment. JohnAdams's Diary [Feb. , 1763].
CAUDA GALLI
A plume-shaped fossil, supposed to be a seaweed, characteristicof the lower Devonian rocks; as, the cauda galli grit. Gauda galliepoch (Geol.), an epoch at the begining of the Devonian age ineastern America, so named from the characteristic gritty sandstonemarked with impressions of cauda galli. See the Diagram underGeology.
CAUDAD
Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.
CAUDAL
Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-likeappendage.The male widow-bird, remarkable for his caudal plumes. Darwin.Caudal fin (Zoรถl.), the terminal fin (or "tail") of a fish.
CAUDATA
See Urodela.
CAUDEX
The sterm of a tree., esp. a sterm without a branch, as of apalm or a tree fern; also, the pernnial rootstock of an herbaceousplant.
CAUDLE
A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of winewith eggs, bread, sugar, and spices.
CAUF
A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water. Philips.
CAUFLE
A gung of slaves. Same as Coffle.
CAUGHT
f Catch.
CAUL
The fold of membrane loaded with fat, which covers more or lessof the intestines in mammals; the great omentum See Omentum.The caul serves for warming of the lower belly. Ray.
CAULESCENT
Having a leafy stem.
CAULICLE
A short caulis or stem, esp. the rudimentary stem seen in theembryo of seed; -- otherwise called a radicle.
CAULICULUS
In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising outof the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to suportthe volutes. See Illust. of Corinthian order, under Corinthian.
CAULIFLOWER
An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage of which thecluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.
CAULIFORM
Having the form of a caulis.
CAULINE
Growing immediately on a caulis; of or pertaining to a caulis.
CAULIS
An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bearflowers.
CAULK
See Calk.
CAULOCARPOUS
Having stems which bear flowers and fruit year after year, asmost trees and shrubs.
CAULOME
A stem structure or stem axis of a plant, viewed as a whole. --Cau*lom"ic (#), a.
CAUMA
Great heat, as of the body in fever.
CAUPONIZE
To sell wine or victuals. [Obs.] Warburfon.
CAUSABLE
Capable of being caused.
CAUSAL
Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a causeor causes; expressing a cause; causative.Causal propositions are where two propositions are joined by causalwords. Watts.
CAUSALITY
The faculty of tracing effects to their causes. G. Combe.
CAUSALLY
According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effectsto causes.
CAUSATION
The act of causing; also the act or agency by which an effectis produced.The kind of causation by which vision is produced. Whewell.Law of universal causation, the theoretical or asserted law thatevery event or phenomenon results from, or is the sequel of, someprevious event or phenomenon, which being present, the other iscertain to take place.
CAUSATIONIST
One who believes in the law of universal causation.
CAUSATIVE
A word which expresses or suggests a cause.
CAUSATIVELY
In a causative manner.
CAUSATOR
One who causes. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
CAUSE
A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a partyendeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case;ground of action.
CAUSEFUL
Having a cause. [Obs.]
CAUSELESS
1. Self-originating; uncreated.
CAUSELESSNESS
The state of being causeless.
CAUSER
One who or that which causes.
CAUSERIE
Informal talk or discussion, as about literary matters; lightconversation; chat.
CAUSEUSE
A kind of sofa for two person. A tรชte-a-tรชte.
CAUSIDICAL
Pertaining to an advocate, or to the maintenance and defense ofsuits.
CAUSTIC
A caustic curve or caustic surface.
CAUSTICALLY
In a caustic manner.
CAUSTICNESS
The quality of being caustic; causticity.
CAUTER
A hot iron for searing or cauterizing. Minsheu.
CAUTERANT
A cauterizing substance.
CAUTERISM
The use or application of a caustic; cautery. Ferrand.
CAUTERIZATION
The act of searing some morbid part by the application of acautery or caustic; also, the effect of such application.
CAUTERY
A burning or searing, as of morbid flesh, with a hot iron, orby application of a caustic that will burn, corrode, or destroyanimal tissue.
CAUTION
To give notice of danger to; to warn; to exhort [one] to takeheed.You cautioned me against their charms. Swift.
CAUTIONARY BLOCK
A block in which two or more trains are permitted to travel,under restrictions imposed by a caution card or the like.
CAUTIONER
A surety or sponsor.
CAUTIONRY
Suretyship.
CAUTIOUS
Attentive to examine probable effects and consequences of actswith a view to avoid danger or misfortune; prudent; circumspect;wary; watchful; as, a cautious general.Cautious feeling for another's pain. Byron.Be swift to hear; but cautious of your tongue. Watts.
CAUTIOUSLY
In a cautious manner.
CAUTIOUSNESS
The quality of being cautious.
CAVALCADE
A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous marchof horsemen by way of parade.He brought back war-worn cavalcade to the city. Prescott.
CAVALIER
A work of more that ordinary heigh, rising from the levelground of a bastion, etc., and overlooking surrounding parts.
CAVALIERISH
Somewhat like a cavalier.
CAVALIERISM
The practice or principles of cavaliers. Sir. W. Scott.
CAVALIERLY
In a supercilious, disdainful, or haughty manner; arroganty.Junius.
CAVALIERNESS
A disdanful manner.
CAVALLY
A carangoid fish of the Atlantic coast (Caranx hippos): --called also horse crevallรฉ.
CAVALRY
That part of military force which serves on horseback.
CAVALRYMAN
One of a body of cavalry.
CAVATINA
Originally, a melody of simpler form than the aria; a songwithout a second part and a da capo; -- a term now variously andvaguely used.
CAVE
To make hollow; to scoop out. [Obs.]The mouldred earth cav'd the banke. Spenser.
CAVEAT
A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to doa certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveatentered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or thetaking out of letters of administration, etc. Bouvier.
CAVEATING
Shifting the sword from one side of an adversary's sword to theother.
CAVEATOR
One who enters a caveat.
CAVENDISH
Leaf tobacco softened, sweetened, and pressed into plugs orcakes. Cut cavendish, the plugs cut into long shreds for smoking.
CAVERN
A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave.
CAVERNULOUS
Full of little cavities; as, cavernulous metal. Black.
CAVETTO
A concave molding; -- used chiefly in classical architecture.See Illust. of Calumn.
CAVICORN
Having hollow horns.
CAVICORNIA
A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on abony process of the front, as the ox.
CAVIL
To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find faultwithout good reason.You do not well in obstinacy To cavil in the course of this contract.Shak.
CAVILING
Disposed to cavil; finding fault without good reason. SeeCaptious.His depreciatory and caviling criticism. Lewis.
CAVILINGLY
In a caviling manner.
CAVILLATION
Frivolous or sophistical objection. [Obs.] Hooker.
CAVIN
A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate theiraproach to a place. Farrow.
CAVITARY
Containing a body cavity; as, the cavitary or nematoid worms.
CAVO-RELIEVO
Cavo-rilievo.
CAVO-RILIEVO
Hollow relief; sculpture in relief within a sinking made forthe purpose, so no part of it projects beyond the plain surfacearound.
CAVORT
To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider.[Local slang U. S.]
CAVY
A rodent of the genera cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig(Cavia cabaya). Cavies are natives of South America. Water cavy(Zoรถl.), The capybara.
CAW
To cry like a crow, rook, or raven.Rising and cawing at the gun's report. Shak.
CAWK
An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar. [Alsowritten cauk.]
CAWKER
See Calker.
CAWKY
Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk.
CAXON
A kind of wig. [Obs.] Lamb.
CAXTON
Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer.Hansard.
CAY
See Key, a ledge.
CAYENNE
Cayenne pepper. Cayenne pepper. (a) (Bot.) A species ofcapsicum (C. frutescens) with small and intensely pungent fruit. (b)A very pungent spice made by drying and grinding the fruits or seedsof several species of the genus Capsicum, esp. C. annuum and C.Frutescens; -- Called also red pepper. It is used chiefly as acondiment.
CAYMAN
The south America alligator. See Alligator. [Sometimes writtencaiman.]
CAYO
A small island or ledge of rock in the water; a key. [Sp. Am.]
CAYUGAS
; sing Cayuga. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians formerly inbabitingwestern New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the FiveNations.
CAYUSE
An Indian pony. [Northw. U. S.]
CC IRA
The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.
CEASE
To put a stop to; to bring to an end.But he, her fears to cease Sent down the meek-eyed peace. Milton.Cease, then, this impious rage. Milton
CEASELESS
Without pause or end; incessant.
CECIDOMYIA
A genus of small dipterous files, including several veryinjurious species, as the Hessian fly. See Hessian fly.
CECITY
Blindness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
CECUTIENCY
Partial blindness, or a tendency to blindness. [R.] Sir T.Browne.
CEDAR
The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable forits durability and fragrant odor.
CEDARED
Covered, or furnished with, cedars.
CEDARN
Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood. [R.]
CEDE
To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede afortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty.The people must cede to the government some of their natural rights.Jay.
CEDILLA
A mark placed under the letter c [thus, รง], to show that it isto be sounded like s, as in faรงade.
CEDRAT
Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with largefruits, not acid, and having a high perfume.
CEDRENE
A rich aromatic oil, C15H24, extracted from oil of red cedar,and regarded as a polymeric terpene; also any one of a class ofsimilar substances, as the essential oils of cloves, cubebs, juniper,etc., of which cedrene proper is the type. [Written also cedren.]
CEDRINE
Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree.
CEDRIRET
Same as Coerulignone.
CEDRY
Of the nature of cedar. [R.]
CEDULE
A scroll; a writing; a schedule. [Obs.]
CEDUOUS
Fit to be felled. [Obs.] Eyelyn.
CEILING
The inner planking of a vessel. Camp ceiling. See under Camp.-- Ceiling boards, Thin narrow boards used to ceil with.
CEINT
A girdle. [Obs.]
CEINTURE
A cincture, girdle, or belt; -- chiefly used in English as adressmaking term.
CELADON
A pale sea-green color; also, porcelain or fine pottery of thistint.
CELEBRANT
One who performs a public religious rite; -- appliedparticularly to an officiating priest in the Roman Catholic Church,as distinguished from his assistants.
CELEBRATED
Having celebrity; distinguished; renowned.Celebrated for the politeness of his manners. Macaulay.
CELEBRATION
The act, process, or time of celebrating.His memory deserving a particular celebration. Clarendok.Celebration of Mass is equivalent to offering Mass Cath. Dict.To hasten the celebration of their marriage. Sir P. Sidney.
CELEBRATOR
One who celebrates; a praiser. Boyle.
CELEBRIOUS
Famous. [Obs.] Speed.
CELERIAC
Turnip-rooted celery, a from of celery with a large globularroot, which is used for food.
CELERITY
Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness.Time, with all its celerity, moves slowly to him whose wholeemployment is to watch its flight. Johnson.
CELERY
A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which theblanched leafstalks are used as a salad.
CELESTIALIZE
To make celestial. [R.]
CELESTIALLY
In a celestial manner.
CELESTIFY
To make like heaven. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CELIAC
See Coellac.
CELIBACY
The state of being unmarried; single life, esp. that of abachelor, or of one bound by vows not to marry. "The celibacy of theclergy." Hallom.
CELIBATE
Unmarried; single; as, a celibate state.
CELIBATIST
One who lives unmarried. [R.]
CELIDOGRAPHY
A description of apparent spots on the disk of the sun, or onplanets.
CELL
A jar of vessel, or a division of a compound vessel, forholding the exciting fluid of a battery.
CELLA
The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, asdistinguished from the open porticoes.
CELLAR
A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surfaceof the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept.
CELLARER
A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who hascharge of procuring and keeping the provisions.
CELLARET
A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine orliquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in asideboard, and usually lined with metal.
CELLARIST
Same as Cellarer.
CELLED
Containing a cell or cells.
CELLEPORE
A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells,belonging to the Bryozoa.
CELLIFEROUS
Bearing or producing cells.
CELLO
A contraction for Violoncello.
CELLULAR
Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cellor cells. Cellular plants, Cellular cryptogams (Bot.), thoseflowerless plants which have no ducts or fiber in their tissue, asmosses, fungi, lichens, and algรฆ.-- Cellular theory, or Cell theory (Biol.), a theory, according towhich the essential element of every tissue, either vegetable oranimal, is a cell; the whole series of cells having been formed fromthe development of the germ cell and by differentiation convertedinto tissues and organs which, both in plants ans animals, are to beconsidered as a mass of minute cells communicating with each other.-- Cellular tissue. (a) (Anat.) See conjunctive tissue underConjunctive. (b) (Bot.) Tissue composed entirely of parenchyma, andhaving no woody fiber or ducts. cellular telephone, a portable radio-telephone transmitting and receiving the radio-telephonic signalsfrom one of a group of transmitter-receiver stations so arranged thatthey provide adequate signal contact for such telephones over acertain geographical area. The area within which one transmitter mayservice such portable telephones is called its "cell.
CELLULATED
Cellular. Caldwell.
CELLULE
A small cell.
CELLULIFEROUS
Bearing or producing little cells.
CELLULITIS
An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. ofthat lying immediately beneath the skin.
CELLULOID
A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, andwhen pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variouslycolored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite, etc. Itis used in the manufacture of jewelry and many small articles, ascombs, brushes, collars, and cuffs; -- originaly called xylonite.
CELLULOSE
Consisting of, or containing, cells.
CELOTOMY
The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure instrangulated hernia. [Frequently written kelotomy.]
CELSITURE
Height; altitude. [Obs.]
CELSIUS
The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from AndersCelsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it. It is the same as thecentigrade thermometer or scale.
CELT
One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited agreat part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants atthe present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, andthe northern shores of France. [Written also Kelt. The letter C waspronounced hard in Celtic languages.]
CELTIBERIAN
Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spainlying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants theCeltiberi (Celts of the river Iberus).-- n.
CELTIC
Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes,literature, tongue. [Written also Keltic.]
CELTICISM
A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language. Warton.
CELTICIZE
To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.
CELTIUM
A supposed new element of the rare-earth group, accompanyinglutecium and scandium in the gadolinite earths. Symbol, Ct (noperiod).
CEMBALO
An old mname for the harpsichord.
CEMENT
The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; --called also cementum. Hydraulic cement. See under Hydraulic.
CEMENT STEEL
Steel produced by cementation; blister steel.
CEMENTAL
Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes.R. Owen.
CEMENTATION
A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with thepowder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree notsufficient to cause fusion, the physical properties of the body beingchanged by chemical combination with powder; thus iron becomes steelby cementation with charcoal, and green glass becomes porcelain bycementation with sand.
CEMENTATORY
Having the quality of cementating or uniting firmly.
CEMENTER
A person or thing that cements.
CEMENTITIOUS
Of the nature of cement. [R.] Forsyth.
CEMETERIAL
Of or pertaining to a cemetery. "Cemeterial cells." [R.] Sir T.Browne.
CEMETERY
A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; agraveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.
CENANTHY
The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens andpistil) in a flower.
CENATION
Meal-taking; dining or supping. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CENATORY
Of or pertaining to dinner or supper. [R.]The Romans washed, were anointed, and wore a cenatory garment. Sir T.Browne.
CENOBITE
One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or acommunity, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives insolitude. Gibbon.
CENOBITISM
The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of acenobite. Milman.
CENOGAMY
The state of a communty which permits promiseuous sexualintercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicingcommunism.
CENOTAPH
An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who isburied elsewhere. Dryden.A cenotaph in Westminster Abbey. Macaulay.
CENOTAPHY
A cenotaph. [R.]Lord Cobham honored him with a cenotaphy. Macaulay.
CENOZOIC
Belonging to the most recent division of geological time,including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Ageof man. [Written also cรฆnozoic, cainozoic, kainozoic.] See Geology.
CENSE
To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices.The Salii sing and cense his altars round. Dryden.
CENSER
A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.
CENSOR
One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of thenumber and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office ofinspector of morals and conduct.
CENSORIAN
Censorial. [R.] Bacon.
CENSORSHIP
The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship.Holland.The press was not indeed at that moment under a general censorship.Macaulay.
CENSUAL
Relating to, or containing, a census.He caused the whole realm to be described in a censual roll. Sir R.Baker.
CENSURABLE
Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, acensurable person, or censurable conduct.-- Cen"sur*a*bleness, n.-- Cen"sur*a*bly, adv.
CENSURE
To judge. [Obs.] Shak.
CENSURER
One who censures. Sha.
CENSUS
A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, forthe purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in fiveyears.
CENTAGE
Rate by the hundred; percentage.
CENTAL
A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in manyparts of the United States a Hundredweight.
CENTARE
A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one squaremeter, or about 1
CENTAUR
A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.
CENTAUREA
A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles andincluding the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and thestar thistle (C. Calcitrapa).
CENTAUROMACHY
A fight in which centaurs take part, -- a common theme forrelief sculpture, as in the Parthenon metopes.
CENTAURY
A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usuallygiven to the Erytherรฆa Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata ofEurope, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even tothe unrelated Centaurea.
CENTENARIAN
Of or relating to a hundred years.-- n.
CENTENNIAL
The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; acentenary. [U. S.]
CENTENNIAL STATE
Colorado; -- a nickname alluding to the fact that it wasadmitted to the Union in the centennial year, 1876.
CENTENNIALLY
Once in a hundred years.
CENTER
A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault orarch are supported in position util the work becomes self-supporting.
CENTERFIRE CARTRIDGE
See under Cartridge.
CENTERING
Same as Center, n., 6. [Written also centring.]
CENTESIMAL
Hundredth.-- n.
CENTESIMATION
The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in everyhundred, as in cases of mutiny.
CENTESIMO
A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime.
CENTESM
Hundredth.
CENTIARE
See centare.
CENTICIPITOUS
Hundred-headed.
CENTIFIDOUS
Divided into a hundred parts.
CENTIFOLIOUS
Having a hundred leaves.
CENTIGRADE
Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundreddivisions or equal parts. Spesifically: of or pertaining thecentigrade thermometer; as, 10ยฐ centigrade (or 10ยฐ C.). Centigradethermometer, a thermometer having the zero or 0 at the pointindicating the freezing state of water, and the distance between thatand the point indicating the boiling state of water divided into onehundred degrees. It is called also the Celsius thermometer, fromAnders Celsius, the originator of this scale.
CENTILOQUY
A work divided into a hundred parts. [R.] Burton.
CENTIME
The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin andmoney of account.
CENTINEL
Sentinel. [Obs.] Sackville.
CENTINODY
A weed with a sterm of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum);also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass.
CENTIPED
A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomouskinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they aremany-jointed, and have a great number of feet. [Written alsocentipede (
CENTISTERE
The hundredth part of a stere, equal to .353 cubic feet.
CENTNER
A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then intosmaller parts.
CENTO
A literary or a musical composition formed by selections fromdifferent authors disposed in a new order.
CENTONISM
The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing acento or centos.
CENTRAL
Relating to the center; situated in or near the center ormiddle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near thecenter; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points.Central force (Math.), a force acting upon a body towards or awayfrom a fixed or movable center.-- Center sun (Astron.), a name given to a hypothetical body aboutwhich Mรคdler supposed the solar system together with all the stars inthe Milky Way, to be revolving. A point near Alcyone in the Pleiadeswas supposed to possess characteristics of the position of such abody.
CENTRALITY
The state of being central; tendency towards a center.Meantime there is a great centrality, a centripetence equal to thecentrifugence. R. W. Emerson.
CENTRALIZATION
The act or process of centralizing, or the state of beingcentralized; the act or process of combining or reducing severalparts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the generalgovernment; the centralization of commerce in a city.
CENTRALIZE
To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about acenter; to bring into one system, or under one control.[To] centralize the power of government. Bancroft.
CENTRALLY
In a central manner or situation.
CENTRE
See Center.
CENTRICITY
The state or quality of being centric; centricalness.
CENTRIFUGAL
A centrifugal machine.
CENTRIFUGAL FILTER
A filter, as for sugar, in which a cylinder with a porous orforaminous periphery is rapidly rotated so as to drive off liquid bycentrifugal action.
CENTRIFUGENCE
The property or quality of being centrifugal. R. W. Emerson.
CENTRING
See Centring.
CENTRIPETENCE
Centripetency.
CENTRIPETENCY
Tendency toward the center.
CENTRISCOID
Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which thebellows fish is an example.
CENTROBARIC
Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of findingit. Centrobaric method (Math.), a process invented for the purpose ofmeasuring the area or the volume generated by the rotation of a lineor surface about a fixed axis, depending upon the principle thatevery figure formed by the revolution of a line or surface about suchan axis has for measure the product of the line or surface by thelength of the path of its center of gravity; -- sometimes calledtheorem of Pappus, also, incorrectly, Guldinus's properties. SeeBarycentric calculus, under Calculus.
CENTRODE
In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curveswhich are the loci of the instantaneous center.
CENTROID
The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system ofbodies.
CENTROLECITHAL
Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum,segmentation being either regular or unequal. Balfour.
CENTROLINEAD
An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or linesconverging to a center.
CENTROLINEAL
Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meetin a point or center.
CENTROSOME
A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell. It isregarded as the dynamic element by means of which the machinery ofcell division is organized.
CENTROSPHERE
The nucleus or central part of the earth, forming most of itsmass; -- disting. from lithosphere, hydrosphere, etc.
CENTROSTALTIC
A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinalcenter. Marshall Hall.
CENTRUM
The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra.
CENTRY
See Sentry. [Obs.] Gray.
CENTUMVIR
One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civilsuits. Under the empire the court was increased to 180, and metusually in four sections.
CENTUMVIRAL
Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir.
CENTUMVIRATE
The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri.
CENTUPLE
Hundredfold.
CENTUPLICATE
To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times. [R.] Howell.
CENTURIAL
Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon. [R.]
CENTURIATE
Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds. [R.]Holland.
CENTURION
A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Romanarmy; a captain of a century.A centurion of the hand called the Italian band. Acts x. 1.
CEORL
A freeman of the lowest class; one not a thane or of theservile classes; a churl.
CEPACEOUS
Of the nature of an onion, as in odor; alliaceous.
CEPEVOROUS
Feeding upon onions. [R.] Sterling.
CEPHALAD
Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body;opposed to caudad.
CEPHALALGIC
Relating to, or affected with, headache.-- n.
CEPHALANTHIUM
Same as Anthodium.
CEPHALASPIS
A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstoneor Devonian formation. The head is large, and protected by a broadshield-shaped helmet prolonged behind into two lateral points.
CEPHALATA
A large division of Mollusca, including all except thebivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
CEPHALATE
Having a head.
CEPHALIC
Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior.Cephalic index (Anat.), the ratio of the breadth of the cranium tothe length, which is taken as the standard, and equal to 100; thebreadth index.-- Cephalic vein, a large vein running from the back of the headalond the arm; -- so named because the ancients used to open it fordisorders of the head. Dunglison.
CEPHALISM
Form or development of the skull; as, the races of man differgreatly in cephalism.
CEPHALITIS
Same as Phrenitis.
CEPHALIZATION
Domination of the head in animal life as expressed in thephysical structure; localization of important organs or parts in ornear the head, in animal development. Dana.
CEPHALOCERCAL
Relating to the long axis of the body.
CEPHALOID
Shaped like the head. Craing.
CEPHALOLOGY
The science which treats of the head.
CEPHALOMERE
One of the somites (arthromeres) which make up the head ofarthropods. Packard.
CEPHALOMETER
An instrument measuring the dimensions of the head of a fetusduring delivery.
CEPHALOMETRY
The measurement of the heads of living persons. --Ceph`a*lo*met"ric (#),a.
CEPHALON
The head.
CEPHALOPHORA
The cephalata.
CEPHALOPODA
The highest class of Mollusca.
CEPHALOPTERA
One of the generic names of the gigantic ray (Manta birostris),known as devilfish and sea devil. It is common on the coasts of SouthCarolina, Florida, and farther south. Some of them grow to enormoussize, becoming twenty feet of more across the body, and weighing morethan a ton.
CEPHALOSOME
The anterior region or head of insects and other arthropods.Packard.
CEPHALOSTYLE
The anterior end of the notochord and its bony sheath in thebase of cartilaginous crania.
CEPHALOTHORAX
The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higherCrustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax.
CEPHALOTOME
An instrument for cutting into the fetal head, to facilitatedelivery.
CEPHALOTOMY
Craniotomy; -- usually applied to bisection of the fetal headwith a saw.
CEPHALOTRIBE
An obstetrical instrument for performing cephalotripsy.
CEPHALOTRIPSY
The act or operation of crushing the head of a fetus in thewomb in order to effect delivery.
CEPHALOTROCHA
A kind of annelid larva with a circle of cilia around the head.
CEPHALOUS
Having a head; -- applied chiefly to the Cephalata, a divisionof mollusks.
CEPHEUS
(Astron.) A northern constellation near the pole. Its head,which is in the Milky Way, is marked by a triangle formed by threestars of the fourth magnitude. See Cassiopeia.
CERACEOUS
Having the texture and color of new wax; like wax; waxy.
CERAGO
Beebread.
CERAMIC
Of or pertaining to pottery; relating to the art of makingearthenware; as, ceramic products; ceramic ornaments for ceilings.
CERAMICS
Work formed of clay in whole or in part, and baked; as, vases,urns, etc. Knight.
CERARGYRITE
Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow orgray color, darkening on exposure to the light. It may be cut by aknife, like lead or horn (hence called horn silver).
CERASIN
A white amorphous substance, the insoluble part of cherry gum;-- called also meta-arabinic acid.
CERASTES
A genus of poisonous African serpents, with a horny scale overeach eye; the horned viper.
CERATE
An unctuous preparation for external application, of aconsistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster,so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but doesnot melt when applied to the skin.
CERATED
Covered with wax.
CERATINE
Sophistical.
CERATOBRANCHIA
A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the backpapilliform or branched organs serving as gills.
CERATOBRANCHIAL
Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial ina branchial arch.-- n.
CERATODUS
A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known asMesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have beendiscovered in Australian rivers. They have lungs so well developedthat they can leave the water and breathe in air. In Australia theyare called salmon and baramunda. See Dipnoi, and Archipterygium.
CERATOHYAL
Pertaining to the bone, or carts, large, below the epihyal inthe hyoid arch.-- n.
CERATOSAURUS
A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the EuropeanMegalosaurus. The animal was nearly twenty feet in length, and theskull bears a bony horn core on the united nasal bones. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
CERATOSPONGIAE
An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of hornyfibers. It includes all the commercial sponges.
CERAUNICS
That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity. R.Park.
CERAUNOSCOPE
An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries toimitate thunder and lightning. T. Moore.
CERBEREAN
Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus. [Written alsoCerberian.]With wide Cerberean mouth. Milton.
CERBERUS
A monster, in the shape, of a three-headed dog, guarding theentrance into the infernal regions, Hence: Any vigilant custodian orguardian, esp. if surly.
CERCAL
Of or pertaining to the tail.
CERCARIA
The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of atadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage.
CERCARIAN
Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariรฆ.-- n.
CERCOPOD
One of the jointed antenniform appendage of the posteriorsomites of cartain insects. Packard.
CERCUS
See Cercopod.
CERE
The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey,parrots, and some other birds. See Beak.
CEREAL
Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for theiredible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds orgrain.
CEREALIA
Public festivals in honor of Ceres.
CEREALIN
A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtainedfrom bran, and possessing the power of converting starch intodextrin, sugar, and lactic acid. Watts.
CEREBEL
The cerebellum. Derham.
CEREBELLUM
The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above themedulla; the little brain. It controls combined muscular action. SeeBrain.
CEREBRAL
Of or pertaining to the cerebrum. Cerebral apoplexy. See underApoplexy.
CEREBRALISM
The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functionsor products of the brain only.
CEREBRALIST
One who accepts cerebralism.
CEREBRATE
To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.
CEREBRATION
Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.
CEREBRIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain. Cerebric acid(Physiol. Chem.), a name formerly sometimes given to cerebrin.
CEREBRICITY
Brain power. [R.]
CEREBRIFORM
Like the brain in form or substance.
CEREBRIFUGAL
Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to thespinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugalimpressions) outwards.
CEREBRIN
A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brainand nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol. It is uncertainwhether it exists as such in nerve tissue, or is a product of thedecomposition of some more complex substance.
CEREBRIPETAL
Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord tothe brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) fromthe exterior inwards.
CEREBRITIS
Inflammation of the cerebrum.
CEREBRO-SPINAL
Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting ofthe brain and spinal cord. Cerebro-spinal fluid (Physiol.), a serousfluid secreted by the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord.-- Cerebro-spinal meningitis, Cerebro-spinal fever (Med.), adangerous epidemic, and endemic, febrile disease, characterized byinflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, givingrise to severe headaches, tenderness of the back of the neck,paralysis of the ocular muscles, etc. It is sometimes marked by acutaneous eruption, when it is often called spotted fever. It is notcontagious.
CEREBROID
Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain.
CEREBROLOGY
The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain.
CEREBROPATHY
A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring inthose whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag.
CEREBROSCOPY
Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of diseas; esp., theact or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain byexamination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope).Buck.
CEREBROSE
A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of thenitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.
CEREBRUM
The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; theseat of the reasoning faculties and the will. See Brain.
CERECLOTH
A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy orglutinous matter.Linen, besmeared with gums, in manner of cerecloth. Bacon.
CEREMONIALISM
Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony.
CEREMONIALLY
According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremoniallyunclean.
CEREMONIALNESS
Quality of being ceremonial.
CEREMONIOUSLY
In a ceremonious way.
CEREMONIOUSNESS
The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious.
CEREOUS
Waxen; like wax. [Obs.] Gayton.
CERES
The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn andtillage.
CERESIN
A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, andused as a substitute for beeswax.
CEREUS
A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives ofAmerica, from California to Chili.
CEREVIS
A small visorless cap, worn by members of German student corps.It is made in the corps colors, and usually bears the insignia of thecorps.
CERIA
Cerium oxide, CeO2, a white infusible substance constitutingabout one per cent of the material of the common incandescent mantle.
CERIAL
Same as Cerial. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CERIFEROUS
Producing wax.
CERIN
A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork;sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble inalcohol. Watts.
CERINTHIAN
One of an ancient religious sect, so called fron Cerinthus, aJew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinionsof the Jews and Gnostics. Hook.
CERIPH
One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine crossstrokes at the top and bottom of letters. [Spelt also seriph.]Savage.
CERISE
Cherry-colored; a light bright red; --- applied to textilefabrics, especially silk.
CERITE
A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiรฏdรฆ; -- socalled from its hornlike form.
CERIUM
A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite,allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resemblesiron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable andductile. It tarnishes readily in the air.
CERNUOUS
Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said ofa bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss.
CERO
A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genusScomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and lesscommonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the commoncero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, orking, cero (S. regalis).
CEROGRAPH
A writing on wax. Knight.
CEROGRAPHIST
One who practices cerography.
CEROLITE
A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine,occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color.
CEROMA
That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers andwrestlers anointed themselves.
CEROMANCY
Divination by dropping melted wax in water.
CEROON
A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound withhide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc.
CEROPLASTIC
The art of modeling in wax.
CEROSIN
A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, andcrystallizing in delicate white laminรฆ.
CEROTE
See Cerate.
CEROTENE
A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by thedistillation of cerotin.
CEROTIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as,cerotic acid or alcohol.
CEROTIN
A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinesewax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- calledalso cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol.
CEROTYPE
A printing process of engraving on a surface of wax spread on asteel plate, for electrotyping.
CERRIAL
Of or pertaining to the cerris.Chaplets green of cerrial oak. Dryden.
CERRIS
A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient andsouthern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak.
CERTAIN
Certainly. [Obs.] Milton.
CERTAINLY
Without doubt or question; unquestionably.
CERTAINNESS
Certainty.
CERTAINTY
Clearness; freedom from ambiguity; lucidity. Of a certainty,certainly.
CERTES
Certainly; in truth; verily. [Archaic]Certes it great pity was to see Him his nobility so foul deface.Spenser.
CERTIFICATION
The act of certifying.
CERTIFIER
One who certifies or assures.
CERTIORARI
A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call upthe records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending,in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, orthat errors and irreguarities may be corrected. It is obtained uponcomplaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can nothave an impartial trial in the inferior court.
CERTITUDE
Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty. J. H. Newman.
CERULE
Blue; cerulean. [Obs.] Dyer.
CERULEAN
Sky-colored; blue; azure. Cowper.Blue, blue, as if that sky let fallA flower from its cerulean wall. Bryant.
CERULEIN
A fast dyestuff, C20H8O6, made by heating gallein with strongsulphuric acid. It dyes mordanted fabrics green.
CERULEOUS
Cerulean. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
CERULESCENT
Tending to cerulean; light bluish.
CERULEUM
A greenish blue pigment prepared in various ways, consistingessentially of cobalt stannate. Unlike other cobalt blues, it doesnot change color by gaslight.
CERULIFIC
Producing a blue or sky color. [R.]
CERUMEN
The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the externalear; the earwax.
CERUMINOUS
Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminousglands.
CERUSE
The native carbonate of lead.
CERUSED
Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face.Beau. & Fl.
CERVANTITE
See under Antimony.
CERVELAT
An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone.
CERVICAL
Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebrรฆ.
CERVICIDE
The act of killing deer; deer-slaying. [R.]
CERVINE
Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidรฆ.
CERVIX
The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of thewomb. See Illust. of Bird.
CERVUS
A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other alliedspecies.
CERYL
A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compoundsobtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.
CESARISM
See Cรฆsarism.
CESPITINE
An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing variousmembers of the pyridine series.
CESPITITIOUS
Same as Cespitious. [R.] Gough.
CESPITOSE
Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from onerootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots. [Written alsocรฆspitose.]
CESPITOUS
Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.A cespitous or turfy plant has many stems from the same root, usuallyforming a close, thick carpet of matting. Martyn.
CESS
To rate; to tax; to assess. Spenser.
CESSANT
Inactive; dormant [Obs.] W. Montagu.
CESSATION
A ceasing of discontinuance, as of action, whether termporaryor final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war.The temporary cessation of the papal iniquities. Motley.The day was yearly observed for a festival by cessation from labor.Sir J. Hayward.Cessation of arms (Mil.), an armistice, or truce, agreed to by thecommanders of armies, to give time for a capitulation, or for otherpurposes.
CESSAVIT
A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant hasfor two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure.
CESSER
a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, fortwo years.
CESSIBLE
Giving way; yielding. [Obs.] -- Ces`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] SirK. Digby.
CESSION
The giving up or vacating a benefice by accepting anotherwithout a proper dispensation.
CESSIONARY
Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt.Martin.
CESSMENT
An assessment or tax. [Obs.] Johnson.
CESSOR
One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service bywhich he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ ofcessavit. See Cessavit. Cowell.
CESSPIPE
A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink orcesspool. Knight.
CESSPOOL
A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, tocollect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; anyreceptace of filth. [Written also sesspool.]
CEST
A woman's girdle; a cestus. [R.] Collins.
CESTODE
Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.-- n.
CESTOID
Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.-- n.
CESTOIDEA
A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which thetapeworms are the most common examples. The body is flattened, andusually but not always long, and composed of numerous joints orsegments, each of which may contain a complete set of male and femalereproductive organs. They have neither mouth nor intestine. SeeTapeworm. [Written also Cestoda.]
CESTOLDEAN
One of the Cestoidea.
CESTRACIONT
A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. Theposterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushingshellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson sharkand a similar one found in California are living examples.
CESTUS
A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gavethe wearer the power of exciting love.
CESURA
See Cรฆsura.
CESURAL
See Cรฆsural.
CETACEA
An order of marine mammals, including the whales. Like ordinarymammals they breathe by means of lungs, and bring forth living youngwhich they suckle for some time. The anterior limbs are changed topaddles; the tail flukes are horizontal. There are two livingsuborders: (a) The Mysticete or whalebone whales, having no trueteeth after birth, but with a series of plates of whalebone [seeBaleen.] hanging down from the upper jaw on each side, thus making astrainer, through which they receive the small animals upon whichthey feed. (b) The Denticete, including the dolphins and sperm whale,which have teeth. Another suborder (Zeuglodontia) is extinct. TheSirenia were formerly included in the Cetacea, but are now made aseparate order.
CETACEAN
One of the Cetacea.
CETACEOUS
Of or pertaining to the Cetacea.
CETE
One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea.
CETENE
An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtainedfrom spermaceti.
CETERACH
A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach).
CETEWALE
Same as Zedoary. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CETIC
Of or pertaining to a whale.
CETIN
A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part ofspermaceti.
CETOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to cetology.
CETOLOGIST
One versed in cetology.
CETOLOGY
The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.
CETRARIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss(Cetaria Islandica). Cetraric acid. See Cetrarin.
CETRARIN
A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss(Cetraria Islandica). It consists of several ingredients, among whichis cetraric acid, a white, crystalline, bitter substance.
CETYL
A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in aseries of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derivedfrom spermaceti.
CETYLIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti. Cetylic alcohol(Chem.), a white, waxy, crystalline solid, obtained from spermaceti,and regarded as homologous with ordinary, or ethyl, alcohol; ethal; -- called also cetyl alcohol.
CEYLANITE
A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel. It is alsocalled pleonaste. [Written also ceylonite.]
CEYLONESE
Of or pertaining to Ceylon.-- n. sing. & pl.
CHA
Tea; -- the Chinese (Mandarin) name, used generally in earlyworks of travel, and now for a kind of rolled tea used in CentralAsia.
CHAB
The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).
CHABLIS
A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.
CHACE
See 3d Chase, n., 3.
CHACHALACA
The texan guan (Ortalis vetula). [written also chiacalaca.]
CHACMA
A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); --called also ursine baboon.
CHACONNE
An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like thePassacaglia, which is slower. Both are used by classical composers asthemes for variations.
CHAD
See Shad. [Obs.]
CHAETETES
A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurianlimestones.
CHAETIFEROUS
Bearing setรฆ.
CHAETODONT
A marine fish of the family Chรฆtodontidรฆ. The chรฆtodonts havebroad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors.
CHAETOGNATH
Of or pertaining to the Chรฆtognatha.
CHAETOGNATHA
An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genusSagitta is the type. They have groups of curved spines on each sideof the head.
CHAETOPOD
Pertaining to the Chรฆtopoda.-- n.
CHAETOPODA
A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by thepresence of lateral setรฆ, or spines, on most or all of the segments.They are divided into two principal groups: Oligochรฆta, including theearthworms and allied forms, and Polychรฆta, including most of themarine species.
CHAETOTAXY
The arrangement of bristles on an insect.
CHAFE
To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear byfriction.Made its great boughs chafe together. Longfellow.The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores. Shak.
CHAFER
A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied toother species; as, the rose chafer.
CHAFERY
An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated beforebeing wrought into bars.
CHAFEWEED
The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing.
CHAFF
The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend eachflower in the heads of many Compositรฆ, as the sunflower. Gray. Chaffcutter, a machine for cutting, up straw, etc., into "chaff" for theuse of cattle.
CHAFFER
One who chaffs.
CHAFFERER
One who chaffers; a bargainer.
CHAFFERN
A vessel for heating water. [Obs.] Johnson.
CHAFFERY
Traffic; bargaining. [Obs.] Spenser.
CHAFFINCH
A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of verysweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copperfinch.
CHAFFING
The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule;raillery; banter.
CHAFFLESS
Without chaff.
CHAFING
The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing.Chafing dish, a dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or forkeeping food warm, either by coals, by a lamp, or by hot water; aportable grate for coals.-- Chafing gear (Naut.), any material used to protect sails,rigging, or the like, at points where they are exposed to friction.
CHAGREEN
See Shagreen.
CHAGRES FEVER
A form of malarial fever occurring along the Chagres River,Panama.
CHAGRIN
Vexation; mortification.I must own that I felt rather vexation and chagrin than hope andsatisfaction. Richard Porson.Hear me, and touch Belinda with chagrin. Pope.
CHAIN
An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuringland.
CHAIN PUMP
A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum orwheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised.The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube throughwhich the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point ofdischarge.
CHAIN STITCH
A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms achain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, asdistinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch.
CHAIN TIE
A tie consisting of a series of connected iron bars or rods.
CHAINLESS
Having no chain; not restrained or fettered. "The chainlessmind." Byron.
CHAINLET
A small chain. Sir W. Scott.
CHAINWORK
Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitchwork.
CHAIRMANSHIP
The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body.
CHAISE
a carriage in general. Cowper.
CHAJA
The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna,chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called alsochauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is usefulin guarding other poultry. See Kamichi.
CHAK
To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid therestraint of the bridle.
CHALAZA
The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats coherewith each other and the nucleus.
CHALAZAL
Of or pertaining to the chalaza.
CHALAZE
Same as Chalaza.
CHALAZIFEROUS
Having or bearing chalazas.
CHALAZION
A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retentionof secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.
CHALAZOGAMY
A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates tothe embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of enteringthrough the micropyle. It was originally discovered by Treub inCasuarina, and has since been found to occur regularly in thefamilies Betulaceรฆ and Juglandaceรฆ. Partial chalazogamy is found inUlmus, the tube here penetrating the nucleus midway between thechalaza and micropyle. --Chal`a*zo*gam"ic (#), a.
CHALCANTHITE
Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue.
CHALCEDONIC
Of or pertaining to chalcedony.
CHALCEDONY
A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, havingusually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax. [Written alsocalcedony.]
CHALCHIHUITL
The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.
CHALCID FLY
One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididรฆ.Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects.
CHALCIDIAN
One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidรฆ),having four small or rudimentary legs.
CHALCOCITE
Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreouscopper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster. [Formerlywritten chalcosine.]
CHALCOGRAPHY
The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially ofengraving for printing.
CHALCOPYRITE
Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of opper,containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and intetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color.
CHALDAIC
Of or pertaining to Chaldes.-- n.
CHALDAISM
An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect.
CHALDEAN
Of or pertaining to Chaldea.-- n.(a) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea.(b) A learned man, esp. an astrologer; -- so called among the Easternnations, because astrology and the kindred arts were much cultivatedby the Chaldeans.(c) Nestorian.
CHALDEE
Of or pertaining to Chaldea.-- n.
CHALDRON
An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up,or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle.Now used exlusively for coal and coke.
CHALICE
A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of theLord's Supper.
CHALICED
Having a calyx or cup; cupshaped. "Chaliced flowers." Shak.
CHALK
A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowishwhite color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the samecomposition as common limestone.
CHALKCUTTER
A man who digs chalk.
CHALKINESS
The state of being chalky.
CHALKSTONE
A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium,found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and inother situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus.
CHALKY
Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, achalky cliff; a chalky taste.
CHALLENGE
The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent oftheir game.
CHALLENGEABLE
That may be challenged.
CHALLENGER
One who challenges.
CHALLIS
A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, forladies' dresses. [Written also chally.]
CHALON
A bed blanket. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHALYBEATE
Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as,chalybeate springs.
CHALYBEOUS
Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel.
CHALYBITE
Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.
CHAM
To chew. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. More.
CHAMADE
A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.They beat the chamade, and sent us carte blanche. Addison.
CHAMAL
The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora.
CHAMBER
Apartments in a lodging house. "A bachelor's life in chambers."Thackeray.
CHAMBERED
Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; achambered gun.
CHAMBERING
Lewdness. [Obs.] Rom. xiii. 13.
CHAMBERLAINSHIP
Office if a chamberlain.
CHAMBERTIN
A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy.
CHAMBRANLE
An ornamental bordering or framelike decoration around thesides and top of a door, window, or fireplace. The top piece iscalled the traverse and the side pieces the ascendants.
CHAMBRAY
A gingham woven in plain colors with linen finish.
CHAMBREL
Same as Gambrel.
CHAMECK
A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbsrudimentary and without a nail.
CHAMELEON
A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamรฆleo, of several species,found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with finegranmulations; the tail is prehensile, and the body is muchcompressed laterally, giving it a high back.
CHAMELEONIZE
To change into various colors. [R.]
CHAMFER
The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formedby two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc.
CHAMFRET
A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.
CHAMFRON
The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse. [Written alsochampfrain and chamfrain.]
CHAMISAL
A California rosaceous shrub (Adenostoma fasciculatum) whichoften forms an impenetrable chaparral.
CHAMLET
See Camlet. [Obs.]
CHAMOIS
A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on theloftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. Itpossesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.
CHAMOMILE
See Camomile.
CHAMP
To bite or chew impatiently.They began . . . irefully to champ upon the bit. Hooker.
CHAMPAGNE
A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the provinceof Champagne, in France.
CHAMPAIGN
A flat, open country.Fair champaign, with less rivers interveined. Milton.Through Apline vale or champaign wide. Wordsworth.
CHAMPER
One who champs, or bites.
CHAMPERTOR
One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the rightof suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain ashare of the gain.
CHAMPERTY
The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishingmoney or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concerntherein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, inthe event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance withthe addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. SeeMaintenance.
CHAMPIGNON
An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris). Fairy ringchampignon, the Marasmius oreades, which has a strong flavor but isedible.
CHAMPIONNESS
A female champion. Fairfax.
CHAMPIONSHIP
State of being champion; leadership; supremancy.
CHAMPLAIN PERIOD
A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following theGlacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain.
CHAMPLEVE
Having the ground engraved or cut out in the parts to beenameled; inlaid in depressions made in the ground; -- said of a kindof enamel work in which depressions made in the surface are filledwith enamel pastes, which are afterward fired; also, designating theprocess  of making such enamel work. --n.
CHAMSIN
See Kamsin.
CHANCE
Probability.
CHANCE-MEDLEY
The kiling of another in self-defense upon a sudden andunpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley.
CHANCEABLE
Fortuitous; casual. [Obs.]
CHANCEABLY
By chance. [Obs.]
CHANCEFUL
Hazardous. [Obs.] Spenser.
CHANCELLERY
Chancellorship. [Obs.] Gower.
CHANCELLOR
A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in theUnited States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.
CHANCELLORSHIP
The office of a chancellor; the time during which one ischancellor.
CHANCRE
A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion oftrue syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- calledalso hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre. Softchancre. A chancroid. See Chancroid.
CHANCROID
A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and someexternal characters, but differing from it in being the startingpoint of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; --called also soft chancre.
CHANCROUS
Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre.
CHANDELIER
A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to coverpioneers. [Obs.]
CHANDLERLY
Like a chandler; in a petty way. [Obs.] Milton.
CHANDLERY
Commodities sold by a chandler.
CHANDOO
An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India forsmoking. Balfour.
CHANDRY
Chandlery. [Obs.] "Torches from the chandry." B. Jonson.
CHANFRIN
The fore part of a horse's head.
CHANGE
A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; abuilding appropriated for mercantile transactions. [Colloq. forExchange.]
CHANGE GEAR
A gear by means of which the speed of machinery or of a vehiclemay be changed while that of the propelling engine or motor remainsconstant; -- called also change-speed gear.
CHANGE KEY
A key adapted to open only one of a set of locks; --distinguished from a master key.
CHANGEABILITY
Changeableness.
CHANGEABLENESS
The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy;mutability.
CHANGEABLY
In a changeable manner.
CHANGEFUL
Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain. Pope.His course had been changeful. Motley.-- Change"ful*ly, adv.-- Change"ful*ness, n.
CHANGELESS
That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose.-- Change"less*ness, n.
CHANK
The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of severalspecies of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinellapyrum. Called also chank chell.
CHANNEL
A strait, or narrow sea, between two portions of lands; as, theBritish Channel.
CHANSON
A song. Shak.
CHANSON DE GESTE
Any Old French epic poem having for its subject events orexploits of early French history, real or legendary, and writtenoriginally in assonant verse of ten or twelve syllables. The mostfamous one is the Chanson de Roland.
CHANSONNETTE
A little song.These pretty little chansonnettes that he sung. Black.
CHANT
To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tunecalled a chant.
CHANTANT
Composed in a melodious and singing style.
CHANTER
The hedge sparrow.
CHANTERELLE
A name for several species of mushroom, of which one(Cantharellus cibrius) is edible, the others reputed poisonous.
CHANTEY
A sailor's song.
CHANTICLEER
A cock, so called from the clearness or loundness of his voicein crowing.
CHANTING
Singing, esp. as a chant is sung. Chanting falcon (Zoรถl.), anAfrican falcon (Melierax canorus or musicus). The male has the habit,remarkable in a bird of prey, of singing to his mate, while she isincubating.
CHANTOR
A chanter.
CHANTRESS
A female chanter or singer. Milton.
CHAOMANCY
Divination by means of apperances in the air.
CHAOTIC
Resembling chaos; confused.
CHAOTICALLY
In a chaotic manner.
CHAP
To bargain; to buy. [Obs.]
CHAPARAJOS
Overalls of sheepskin or leather, usually open at the back,worn, esp. by cowboys, to protect the legs from thorny bushes, as inthe chaparral; -- called also chapareras or colloq. chaps. [Sp.Amer.]
CHAPARERAS
Same as Chaparajos. [Sp. Amer.]
CHAPBOOK
Any small book carried about for sale by chapmen or hawkers.Hence, any small book; a toy book.
CHAPEAU
A cap of maintenance. See Maintenance. Chapeau bras ( Etym: [F.chapeau hat + bras arm], a hat so made that it can be compressed andcarried under the arm without injury. Such hats were particularlyworn on dress occasions by gentlemen in the 18th century. A chapeaubras is now worn in the United States army by general and staffofficers.
CHAPED
Furnished with a chape or chapes. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHAPEL
To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn ormake a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the sametack on which she had been sailing.
CHAPELESS
Without a chape.
CHAPELLANY
A chapel within the jurisdiction of a church; a subordinateecclesiastical foundation.
CHAPELRY
The territorial disrict legally assigned to a chapel.
CHAPERON
To attend in public places as a guide and protector; tomatronize.Fortunately Lady Bell Finley, whom I had promised to chaperon, sentto excuse herself. Hannah More.
CHAPERONAGE
Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protectionafforded by a chaperon.
CHAPFALLEN
Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication ofhumiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen.
CHAPITER
A capital [Obs.] See Chapital. Ex. xxxvi. 38.
CHAPLAINCY
The office, position, or station of a chaplain. Swift.
CHAPLESS
Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless. [R.] "Yellow, chaplessskulls." Shak.
CHAPLET
A small molding, carved into beads, pearls, olives, etc.
CHAPPY
Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.
CHAPS
The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap. "Open yourchaps again." Shak.
CHAPTREL
An impost. [Obs.]
CHAR
A car; a chariot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHAR-A-BANC
A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats runninglengthwise.
CHARA
A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems andwhorled branches. They flourish in wet places.
CHARACT
A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. [Obs.] SeeCharacter.In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms. Shak.
CHARACTERISM
A distinction of character; a characteristic. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
CHARACTERISTIC
Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showingthe character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person orthing; peculiar; distinctive.Characteristic clearness of temper. Macaulay.
CHARACTERISTICAL
Characteristic.
CHARACTERISTICALLY
In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes.
CHARACTERIZATION
The act or process of characterizing.
CHARACTERLESS
Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character orforce.
CHARADE
A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two ormore significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as theword itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions orrepresentations.
CHARBOCLE
Carbuncle. [Written also Charboncle.] [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHARBON
A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of thecorner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has becomeobliterated.
CHARCOAL
Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawingimplement. Animal charcoal, a fine charcoal prepared by calciningbones in a closed vessel; -- used as a filtering agent in sugarrefining, and as an absorbent and disinfectant.-- Charcoal blacks, the black pigment, consisting of burnt ivory,bone, cock, peach stones, and other substances.-- Charcoal drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with charcoal. SeeCharcoal, 2. Until within a few years this material has been usedalmost exclusively for preliminary outline, etc., but at present manyfinished drawings are made with it.-- Charcoal point, a carbon pencil prepared for use un an electriclight apparatus.-- Mineral charcoal, a term applied to silky fibrous layers ofcharcoal, interlaminated in beds of ordinary bituminous coal; --known to miners as mother of coal.
CHARE
A narrow street. [Prov. Eng.]
CHARGE
To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to addto or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.
CHARGEABLENESS
The quality of being chargeable or expensive. [Obs.]Whitelocke.
CHARGEABLY
At great cost; expensively. [Obs.]
CHARGEANT
Burdensome; troublesome. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHARGEFUL
Costly; expensive. [Obs.]The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion. Shak.
CHARGEHOUSE
A schoolhouse. [Obs.]
CHARGELESS
Free from, or with little, charge.
CHARGEOUS
Burdensome. [Obs.]I was chargeous to no man. Wyclif, (2 Cor. xi. 9).
CHARGESHIP
The office of a chargรฉ d'affaires.
CHARILY
In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.
CHARINESS
The quality of being chary.
CHARIOT
A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, stateprocessions, etc.First moved the chariots, after whom the foot. Cowper.
CHARIOTEE
A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with twoseats.
CHARIOTEER
A constellation. See Auriga, and Wagones.
CHARISM
A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreignlanguages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the earlyChristians.
CHARISMATIC
Of or pertaining to a charism.
CHARITABLENESS
The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity.
CHARITABLY
In a charitable manner.
CHARITY
Defn:Now abideth faith, hope, charity, three; but the greatest of these ischarity. 1. Cor. xiii. 13.They, at least, are little to be envied, in whose hearts the greatcharities . . . lie dead. Ruskin.With malice towards none, with charity for all. Lincoln.
CHARIVARI
A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tinhorns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.
CHARK
Charcoal; a cinder. [Obs.] DeFoe.
CHARLATAN
One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantablepretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.
CHARLATANISM
Charlatanry.
CHARLATANRY
Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.
CHARLOCK
A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers;wild mustard. It is troublesome in grain fields. Called alsochardock, chardlock, chedlock, and kedlock. Jointed charlock, Whitecharlock, a troublesome weed (Raphanus Raphanistrum) with straw-colored, whitish, or purplish flowers, and jointed pods: wild radish.
CHARLOTTE
A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices ofbread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked. CharlotteRusse (, or Charlotte ร  la russe Etym: [F., lit., Russian charlotte](Cookery), a dish composed of custard or whipped cream, inclosed insponge cake.
CHARMEL
A fruitful field.Libanus shall be turned into charmel, and charmel shall be esteemedas a forest. Isa. xxix. 17 (Douay version).
CHARMERESS
An enchantress. Chaucer.
CHARMFUL
Abounding with charms. "His charmful lyre." Cowley.
CHARMING
Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting;fascinating; attractive.How charming is divine philosophy. Milton.
CHARMLESS
Destitute of charms. Swift.
CHARNEL
Containing the bodies of the dead. "Charnel vaults." Milton.Charnel house, a tomb, vault, cemetery, or other place where thebones of the dead are deposited; originally, a place for the bonesthrown up when digging new graves in old burial grounds.
CHARON
The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry thesouls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions.Shak.
CHARPIE
Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; --used for surgical dressings.
CHARQUI
Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the windand sun. Darwin.
CHARR
See 1st Char.
CHARRAS
The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same asChurrus. Balfour.
CHARRE
See Charge, n., 17.
CHARRY
Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities.
CHART
To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart acoast.
CHARTACEOUS
Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery.
CHARTE
The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy,as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814.
CHARTER
The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or thecontract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a shipis offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below. Charterland (O. Eng. Law), land held by charter, or in socage; bookland.-- Charter member, one of the original members of a society orcorporation, esp. one named in a charter, or taking part in the firstproceedings under it.-- Charter party Etym: [F. chartre partie, or charte partie, adivided charter; from the practice of cutting the instrument ofcontract in two, and giving one part to each of the contractors](Com.), a mercantile lease of a vessel; a specific contract by whichthe owners of a vessel let the entire vessel, or some principal partof the vessel, to another person, to be used by the latter intransportation for his own account, either under their charge or his.-- People's Charter (Eng. Hist.), the document which embodied thedemands made by the Chartists, so called, upon the English governmentin 1838.
CHARTERER
One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage.
CHARTERHOUSE
A well known public school and charitable foundation in thebuilding once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London.
CHARTERIST
Same as Chartist.
CHARTISM
The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), whichcontended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annualparliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms, asset forth in a document called the People's Charter.
CHARTIST
A supporter or partisan of chartism. [Eng.]
CHARTLESS
Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.
CHARTOMANCY
Divination by written paper or by cards.
CHARTOMETER
An instrument for measuring charts or maps.
CHARTREUX
A Carthusian.
CHARTULARY
See Cartulary.
CHARWOMAN
A woman hired for odd work or for single days.
CHARY
Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift;saving; frugal.His rising reputation made him more chary of his fame. Jeffrey.
CHARYBDIS
A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla onthe Italian coast. It is personified as a female monster. See Scylla.
CHASABLE
Capable of being chased; fit for hunting. Gower.
CHASE
To give chase; to hunt; as, to chase around after a doctor.[Colloq.]
CHASER
Same as Chase gun, esp. in terms bow chaser and stern chaser.See under Bow, Stern.
CHASIBLE
See Chasuble.
CHASING
The art of ornamenting metal by means of chasing tools; also, apiece of ornamental work produced in this way.
CHASMED
Having gaps or a chasm. [R.]
CHASMY
Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms. Carlyle.They cross the chasmy torrent's foam-lit bed. Wordsworth.
CHASSE
A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left.
CHASSE-CAFE
See Chasse, n., above.
CHASSE-MAREE
A French coasting lugger.
CHASSELAS
A white grape, esteemed for the table.
CHASSEPOT
A kind of breechloading, center-fire rifle, or improved needlegun.
CHASSEUR
One of a body of light troops, cavalry or infantry, trained forrapid movements.
CHASSIS
A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which thecarriage of a barbette or casemate gum moves backward and forward.[See Gun carriage.]
CHAST
to chasten. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHASTELY
In a chaste manner; with purity.
CHASTENED
Corrected; disciplined; refined; purified; toned down. Sir. W.Scott.Of such a finished chastened purity. Tennyson.
CHASTENER
One who chastens.
CHASTENESS
Freedom from all that is meretricious, gaundy, or affected; as,chasteness of design.
CHASTISABLE
Capable or deserving of chastisement; punishable. Sherwood.
CHASTISEMENT
The act of chastising; pain inflicted for punishment andcorrection; discipline; punishment.Shall I so much dishonor my fair stars, On equal terms to give himchastesement! Shak.I have borne chastisement; I will not offend any more. Job xxxiv. 31.
CHASTISER
One who chastises; a punisher; a corrector. Jer. Taylor.The chastiser of the rich. Burke.
CHASTITY
Chasteness.
CHASUBLE
The outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass,consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, backpiece, and a narrower front piece, the two connected over theshoulders only. The back has usually a large cross, the front anupright bar or pillar, designed to be emblematical of Christ'ssufferings. In the Greek Church the chasuble is a large round mantle.[Written also chasible, and chesible.]
CHAT
To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse withoutform or ceremony; to gossip. Shak.To chat a while on their adventures. Dryden.
CHATELAINE
An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, andhaving a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets,etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain.
CHATELET
A little castle.
CHATELLANY
Same as Castellany.
CHATI
A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis).
CHATOYANT
Having a changeable, varying luster, or color, like that of achangeable silk, or oa a cat's eye in the dark.
CHATOYMENT
Changeableness of color, as in a mineral; play of colors.Cleaceland.
CHATTEL
Any item of movable or immovable property except the freehold,or the things which are parcel of it. It is a more extensive termthan goods or effects.
CHATTELISM
The act or condition of holding chattels; the state of being achattel.
CHATTER
To utter rapidly, idly, or indistinctly.Begin his witless note apace to chatter. Spenser.
CHATTERATION
The act or habit of chattering. [Colloq.]
CHATTERER
A bird of the family Ampelidรฆ -- so called from its monotonousnote. The Bohemion chatterer (Ampelis garrulus) inhabits the arcticregions of both continents. In America the cedar bird is a morecommon species. See Bohemian chatterer, and Cedar bird.
CHATTERING
The act or habit of talking idly or rapidly, or of makinginarticulate sounds; the sounds so made; noise made by the collisionof the teeth; chatter.
CHATTINESS
The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily andpleasantly.
CHATTY
Given to light, familiar talk; talkative. Lady M. W. Montagu.
CHATWOOD
Little sticks; twigs for burning; fuel. Johnson.
CHAUD-MEDLEY
The killing of a person in an affray, in the heat of blood, andwhile under the influence of passion, thus distinguished from chance-medley or killing in self-defense, or in a casual affray. Burrill.
CHAUDRON
See Chawdron. [Obs.]
CHAUFFER
A table stove or small furnace, usually a cylindrical box ofsheet iron, with a grate at the bottem, and an open top.
CHAUFFEUR
Brigands in bands, who, about 1793, pillaged, burned, andkilled in parts of France; -- so called because they used to burn thefeet of their victims to extort money.
CHAUFFEUSE
A woman chauffeur.
CHAULDRON
See Chawdron. [Obs.]
CHAUN
A gap. [Obs.] Colgrave.
CHAUNT
See Chant.
CHAUNTERIE
See Chantry. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHAUS
a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus).
CHAUSSES
The garment for the legs and feet and for the body below thewaist, worn in Europe throughout the Middle Ages; applied also to thearmor for the same parts, when fixible, as of chain mail.
CHAUSSURE
A foot covering of any kind.
CHAUTAUQUA SYSTEM OF EDUCATION
The system of home study established in connection with thesummer schools assembled at Chautauqua, N. Y., by the MethodistEpiscopal bishop, J. H. Vincent.
CHAUVINISM
Blind and absurd devotion to a fallen leader or an obsoletecause; hence, absurdly vainglorious or exaggerated patriotism.-- Chau"vin*ist, n.-- Chau`vin*is"tic (, a.
CHAVENDER
The chub. Walton.
CHAW
The jaw. [Obs.] Spenser. Chaw bacon, a rustic; a bumpkin; alout. (Law) -- Chaw tooth, a grinder. (Law)
CHAWDRON
Entrails. [Obs.] [Written also chaudron, chauldron.] Shak.
CHAY ROOT
The root of the Oldenlandia umbellata, native in India, whichyieds a durable red dyestuff. [Written also choy root.]
CHAZY EPOCH
An epoch at the close of the Canadian period of the AmericanLower Silurian system; -- so named from a township in Clinton Co.,New York. See the Diagram under Geology.
CHEAP
A bargain; a purchase; cheapness. [Obs.]The sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as goodcheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. Shak.
CHEAPEN
To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; todepreciate. Pope.My proffered love has cheapened me. Dryden.
CHEAPENER
One who cheapens.
CHEAPLY
At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferiormanner.
CHEAPNESS
Lowness in price, considering the usual price, or real value.
CHEAR
See Cheer.
CHEAT
A troublesome grass, growing as a weed in grain fields; --called also chess. See Chess.
CHEATABLE
Capable of being cheated.
CHEATABLENESS
Capability of being cheated.
CHEBACCO
A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundlandfisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec. Bartlett.
CHEBEC
See Chebacco.
CHECK
A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such amenace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it wereany other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced issaid to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move.
CHECKER
One who checks.
CHECKERBERRY
A spicy plant and its bright red berry; the wintergreen(Gaultheria procumbens). Also incorrectly applied to the partridgeberry (Mitchella repens).
CHECKERBOARD
A board with sixty-four squares of alternate color, used forplaying checkers or draughts.
CHECKERS
A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by twopersons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which aremoved diagonally. The game is ended when either of the players haslost all his men, or can not move them.
CHECKLESS
That can not be checked or restrained.
CHECKMATE
To check (an adversary's king) in such a manner that escape inimpossible; to defeat (an adversary) by putting his king in checkfrom which there is no escape.
CHECKROLL
A list of servants in a household; -- called also chequer roll.
CHECKSTRING
A cord by which a person in a carriage or horse car may signalto the driver.
CHECKWORK
Anything made so as to form alternate squares lke those of acheckerboard.
CHECKY
Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; --said of the field or of an armorial bearing. [Written also checquy,cheguy.]
CHEDDAR
Of or pertaining to, or made at, Cheddar, in England; as,Cheddar cheese.
CHEEK
Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work,which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as,the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc.
CHEEKED
Having a cheek; -- used in composition. "Rose-cheeked Adonis."Shak.
CHEEKY
a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold. [Slang.]
CHEEP
To chirp, as a young bird.
CHEERER
One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens. "Thou cheererof our days." Wotton. "Prime cheerer, light." Thomson.
CHEERFUL
Having or showing good spirits or joy; cheering; cheery;contented; happy; joyful; lively; animated; willing.To entertain a cheerful disposition. Shak.The cheerful birds of sundry kind Do chant sweet music. Spenser.A cheerful confidence in the mercy of God. Macaulay.This general applause and cheerful shout. Shak.
CHEERFULLY
In a cheerful manner, gladly.
CHEERFULNESS
Good spirits; a state of moderate joy or gayety; alacrity.
CHEERILY
In a cheery manner.
CHEERINESS
The state of being cheery.
CHEERINGLY
In a manner to cheer or encourage.
CHEERISNESS
Cheerfulness. [Obs.]There is no Christian duty that is not to be seasoned and set offwith cheerishness. Milton.
CHEERLESS
Without joy, gladness, or comfort.-- Cheer"less*ly, adv.-- Cheer"less*ness, n.My cheerful day is turned to cheerles night. Spenser.
CHEERLY
Gay; cheerful. [Obs.] Shak.
CHEERRY
Cheerful; lively; gay; bright; pleasant; as, a cheery person.His cheery little study, where the sunshine glimmered so pleasantly.Hawthorne.
CHEESE CLOTH
A thin, loosewoven cotton cloth, such as is used in pressingcheese curds.
CHEESELEP
A bag in which rennet is kept.
CHEESEMONGER
One who deals incheese. B. Jonson.
CHEESEPARING
A thin portion of the rind of a cheese.-- a.
CHEESINESS
The quality of being cheesy.
CHEESY
Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, orappearance of cheese.
CHEETAH
A species of leopard (Cynรฆlurus jubatus) tamed and used forhunting in India. The woolly cheetah of South Africa is C. laneus.[Written also chetah.]
CHEF
Same as Chief.
CHEILOPLASTY
The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, byusing for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from someneighboring part.
CHEILOPODA
See Ch.
CHEIROPTER
One of the Cheiroptera.
CHEIROPTERA
An order of mammalia, including the bats, having four toes ofeach of the anterior limbs elongated and connected by a web, so thatthey can be used like wings in flying. See Bat.
CHEIROPTEROUS
Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family.
CHEIROPTERYGIUM
The typical pentadactyloid limb of the higher vertebrates.
CHEIROSOPHY
The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand.-- Chei*ros"o*phist (, n.
CHEIROTHERIUM
A genus of extinct animals, so named from fossil footprintsrudely resembling impressions of the human hand, and believed to havebeen made by labyrinthodont reptiles. See Illustration in Appendix.
CHEKELATOUN
See Ciclatoun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHEKMAK
A turkish fabric of silk and cotton, with gold threadinterwoven.
CHELA
The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida.
CHELATE
Same as Cheliferous.
CHELERYTHRINE
Am alkaloidal principle obtained from the celandine, and namedfrom the red color of its salts, It is a coloriess crystallinesubstance, and acts as an acrid narcotic poison. It is identical withsanguinarine.
CHELICERA
One of the anterior pair of mouth organs, terminated by apincherlike claw, in scorpions and allied Arachnida. They arehomologous with the falcers of spiders, and probably with themandibles of insects.
CHELIDON
The hollow at the flexure of the arm.
CHELIDONIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the celandine. Cheidonicacid, a weak acid extracted fron the celandine (Chelidonium majus),as a white crystalline substance.
CHELIDONIUS
A small stone taken from the gizzard of a young swallow.-- anciently worn as a medicinal charm.
CHELIFER
See Book scorpion, under Book.
CHELIFEROUS
Having cheliform claws, like a crab.
CHELIFORM
Having a movable joint or finger closing againts a precedingjoint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be ised forgrasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike.
CHELONE
A genus of hardy perennial flowering plants, of the orderScrophulariaceaรฆ., natives of North America; -- called alsosnakehead, turtlehead, shellflower, etc.
CHELONIA
An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles,perculiar in having a part of the vertebrรฆ, ribs, and sternum unitedwith the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell. The jaws arecovered by a horny beak. See Reptilia; also, Illust. in Appendix.
CHELONIAN
Of or pertaining to animals of the tortoise kind.-- n.
CHELURA
A genus of marine amphipod crustacea, which bore into andsometimes destroy timber.
CHELY
A claw. See Chela. [Obs.]
CHEMIC
A solution of chloride of line.
CHEMICAL
Pertaining to chemistry; characterized or produced by theforces and operations of chemistry; employed in the processes ofchemistry; as, chemical changes; chemical comnbinations. Chemicalattraction or affinity. See under Attraction.
CHEMICALLY
According to chemical principles; by chemical process oroperation.
CHEMIGLYPHIC
Engraved by a voltaic battary.
CHEMIGRAPHY
Any mechanical engraving process depending upon chemicalaction; specif., a process of zinc etching not employing photography.-- Chem`i*graph"ic (#), a.
CHEMILOON
A garment for women, consisting of chemise and drawers unitedin one. [U. S.]
CHEMISETTE
An under-garment, worn by women, usually covering the neck,shoulders, and breast.
CHEMISM
The force exerted between the atoms of elementary substancewhereby they unite to form chemical compounds; chemical attaction;affinity; -- sometimes used as a general expression for chemicalactivity or relationship.
CHEMIST
A person versed in chemistry or given to chemicalinvestigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs.
CHEMITYPE
One of a number of processes by which an impression from anengraved plate is obtained in relief, to be used for printing on anordinary printing press.
CHEMOLYSIS
A term sometimes applied to the decomposition of organicsubstance into more simple bodies, by the use of chemical agentsalone. Thudichum.
CHEMOSIS
Inflammatory swelling of the conjunctival tissue surroundingthe cornea. --Che*mot"ic (#), a.
CHEMOSMOSIS
Chemical action taking place through an intervening membrane.
CHEMOSMOTIC
Pertaining to, or produced by, chemosmosis. [R.]
CHEMOSYNTHESIS
Synthesis of organic compounds by energy derived from chemicalchanges or reactions. Chemosynthesis of carbohydrates occurs in thenitrite bacteria through the oxidation of ammonia to nitrous acid,and in the nitrate bacteria through the conversion of nitrous intonitric acid. -- Chem`o*syn*thet"ic (#), a.
CHEMUNG PERIOD
A subdivision in the upper part of the Devonian system inAmerica, so named from the Chemung River, along which the rocks arewell developed. It includes the Portage and Chemung groups or epochs.See the Diagram under Geology.
CHENG
A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth.
CHENILLE
Tufted cord, of silk or worsted, for the trimimg of ladies'dresses, for embroidery and fringes, and for the weft of chenillerugs.
CHENOMORPHAE
An order of birds, including the swans, ducks, geese,flamingoes and screamers.
CHEPSTER
The European starling. [Local, Eng.]
CHEQUE
See Check.
CHEQUER
Same as Checker.
CHEQUING
A coin. See Sequin. Shak.
CHEQUY
Same as Checky.
CHERIF
See Cherif.
CHERISHER
One who cherishes.The cherisher of my flesh and blood. Shak.
CHERISHMENT
Encouragement; comfort. [Obs.]Rich bounty and dear cherishment. Spenser.
CHERMES
See Kermes.
CHEROGRIL
See Cony.
CHEROKEES
An Appalachian tribe of Indians, formerly inhabiting the regionabout the head waters of the Tennessee River. They are now mostlysettled in the Indian Territory, and have become one of the mostcivilized of the Indian Tribes.
CHEROOT
A kind of cigar, originally brought from Mania, in thePhilippine Islands; now often made of inferior or adulteratedtabacco.
CHERRY
A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes theplum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone; (a) The common gardencherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties arecultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau,blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke(corrupted from Mรฉdoc in France). (b) The wild cherry; as, prunusserotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana(choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P.avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry).
CHERSONESE
A peninsula; a tract of land nearly surrounded by water, butunited to a larger tract by a neck of land or isthmus; as, theCimbric Chersonese, or Jutland; the Tauric Chersonese, or Crimea.
CHERT
An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dullcolor.
CHERTY
Like chert; containing chert; flinty.
CHERUB
Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic. "The cherubic host."Milton.
CHERUBIM
The Hebrew plural of Cherub.. Cf. Seraphim.
CHERUBIN
Cherubic; angelic. [Obs.] Shak.
CHERUP
To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup."Cheruping birds." Drayton.
CHERVIL
A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with pinnately divided aromaticleaves, of which several curled varieties are used in soups andsalads.
CHES
pret. of Chese. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHESE
To choose [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHESIBLE
See Chasuble.
CHESLIP
The wood louse. [Prov. Eng.]
CHESS
A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with twodifferently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player hasa king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, andeight pawns.
CHESS-APPLE
The wild service of Europe (Purus torminalis).
CHESSBOARD
The board used in the game of chess, having eight rows ofalternate light and dark squares, eight in each row. SeeCheckerboard.
CHESSEL
The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed. Simmonds.
CHESSES
The platforms, consisting of two or more planks doweledtogether, for the flooring of a temporary military bridge. Wilhelm.A singular, chess, is sometimes used. "Each chess consists of threeplanks." Farrow.
CHESSIL
Gravel or pebbles. Halliwell.
CHESSMAN
A piece used in the game of chess.
CHESSOM
Mellow earth; mold. [Obs.] Bacon.
CHESSTREE
A piece of oak bolted perpendicularly on the side of a vessel,to aid in drawing down and securing the clew of the mainsail.
CHESSY COPPER
The mineral azurite, found in fine crystallization at Chessy,near Lyons; called also chessylite.
CHEST
A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., aretransported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains.
CHEST FOUNDER
A rheumatic affection of the muscles of the breast and forelegs of a horse, affecting motion and respiration.
CHESTED
Having (such) a chest; -- in composition; as, broad-chested;narrow-chested.
CHESTERLITE
A variety of feldspar found in crystals in the county ofChester, Pennsylvania.
CHESTEYN
The chestnut tree. [Obs.]Wilwe, elm, plane, assch, box, chesteyn. Chaucer.
CHESTNUT
The edible nut of a forest tree (Castanea vesce) of Europe andAmerica. Commonly two or more of the nuts grow in a prickly bur.
CHETAH
See Cheetah.
CHETVERT
A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or5.95 Winchester bushels. [Russia]
CHEVACHIE
See Chivachie. [Obs.]
CHEVAGE
See Chiefage. [Obs.]
CHEVAL
A horse; hence, a support or frame. Cheval glass, a mirrorswinging in a frame, and large enough to reflect the full leghtfigure.
CHEVAL-DE-FRISE
A piece of timber or an iron barrel traversed with iron-pointedspikes or spears, five or six feet long, used to defend a passage,stop a breach, or impede the advance of cavalry, etc.Obstructions of chain, boom, and cheval-de-frise. W. Irving.
CHEVAUX
See Cheval.
CHEVE
To come to an issue; to turn out; to succed; as, to cheve wellin a enterprise. [Prov. or Obs.] Holland.
CHEVELURE
A hairlike envelope.The nucleus and chevelure of nebulous star. Sir. W. Hershel.
CHEVEN
A river fish; the chub. Sir T. Browne.
CHEVENTEIN
A variant of Chieftain. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHEVERIL
Soft leather made of kid skin. Fig.: Used as a symbol offlexibility. [Obs.]Here's wit of cheveril, that stretches from an inch narrow to an ellbroad. Shak.
CHEVERLIIZE
To make as pliable as kid leather. [Obs.] Br. Montagu.
CHEVET
The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round orpolygonal part.
CHEVRETTE
A machine for raising guns or mortar into their carriages.
CHEVRON
One of the nine honorable ordinaries, consisting of two broadbands of the width of the bar, issuing, respectively from the dexterand sinister bases of the field and conjoined at its center.
CHEVRONED
Having a chevron; decorated with an ornamental figure of azigzag from.[A garment] whose nether parts, with their bases, were of watchetcloth of silver, chevroned all over with lace. B. Jonson.
CHEVRONEL
A bearing like a chevron, but of only half its width.
CHEVRONWISE
In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be dividedchevronwise.
CHEVROTAIN
A small ruminant of the family Tragulidรฆ a allied to the muskdeer. It inhabits Africa and the East Indies. See Kanchil.
CHEVY
See Chivy, v. t. [Slang, Eng.]One poor fellow was chevied about among the casks in the storm forten minutes. London Times.
CHEW
To perform the action of biting and grinding with the teeth; toruminate; to meditate.old politicians chew wisdom past. Pope.
CHEWER
One who chews.
CHEWET
A kind of meat pie. [Obs.]
CHEWINK
An american bird (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) of the Finch family,so called from its note; -- called also towhee bunting and groundrobin.
CHEYENNES
A warlike tribe of indians, related to the blackfeet, formerlyinhabiting the region of Wyoming, but now mostly on reservations inthe Indian Territory. They are noted for their horsemanship.
CHIAN
Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the รgean Sea. Chianearth, a dense, compact kind of earth, from Chios, used anciently asan astringent and a cosmetic.-- Chian turpentine, a fragrant, almost transparent turpentine,obtained from the Pistacia Terebinthus.
CHIAROSCURIST
A painter who cares for and studies light and shade rather thancolor.
CHIASMUS
An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated orsubsequently referred to in a sentence; thus,If e'er to bless thy sons My voice or hands deny, These hands letuseful skill forsake, This voice in silence die. Dwight.
CHIASTOLITE
A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle. The tesselatedapperance of a cross section is due to the symmetrical arrangement ofimpurities in the crystal.
CHIBBAL
See Cibol.
CHIC
Good form; style. [Slang]
CHICA
A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, usedby some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.
CHICALOTE
A Mexican prickly poppy (Argemone platyceras), which hasmigrated into California.
CHICANE
The use of artful subterfuge, designed to draw away attentionfrom the merits of a case or question; -- specifically applied tolegal proceedings; trickery; chicanery; caviling; sophistry. Prior.To shuffle from them by chicane. Burke.To cut short this, I propound it fairly to your own canscience.Berkeley.
CHICANER
One who uses chicanery. Locke.
CHICANERY
Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure thetruth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry.Irritated by perpetual chicanery. Hallam.
CHICCORY
See Chicory.
CHICH
The chick-pea.
CHICHA
See Chica.
CHICHEVACHE
A fabulous cow of enormous size, whose food was patient wives,and which was therefore in very lean condition.
CHICK
To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate. Chalmers.
CHICK-PEA
A Small leguminous plant (Cicer arietinum) of Asia, Africa, andthe sounth of Europe; the chick; the dwarf pea; the gram.
CHICKABIDDY
A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for achild.
CHICKADEE
A small bird, the blackcap titmouse (Parus atricapillus), ofNorth America; -- named from its note.
CHICKAREE
The American red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius); -- so calledfrom its cry.
CHICKASAWS
A trible of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian)allied to the Choctaws. They formerly occupied the northern part ofAlabama and Mississippi, but now live in the Indian Territory.
CHICKEN POX
A mild, eruptive disease, generally attacking children only;varicella.
CHICKEN-BREASTED
Having a narrow, projecting chest, caused by forward curvatureof the vertebral column.
CHICKEN-HEARTED
Timid; fearful; cowardly. Bunyan.
CHICKLING
A small chick or chicken.
CHICKWEED
The name of several caryophyllaseous weeds, especiallyStellaria media, the seeds and flower buds of which are a favoritefood of small birds.
CHICKY
A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially incalling fowls.
CHICORY
A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with brightblue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; alsocultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive.See Endive.
CHIDE
A continuous noise or murmur.The chide of streams. Thomson.
CHIDER
One who chides or quarrels. Shak.
CHIDERESS
She who chides. [Obs.]
CHIDESTER
A female scold. [Obs.]
CHIDINGLY
In a chiding or reproving manner.
CHIEF
The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to becomposed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs. In chief. (a) Atthe head; as, a commander in chief. (b) (Eng. Law) From the king, orsovereign; as, tenure in chief, tenure directly from the king.
CHIEF BARON
The presiding judge of the court of exchequer.
CHIEF HARE
A small rodent (Lagamys princeps) inhabiting the summits of theRocky Mountains; -- also called crying hare, calling hare, cony,American pika, and little chief hare.
CHIEF JUSTICE
The presiding justice, or principal judge, of a court. LordChief Justice of England, The presiding judge of the Queen's BenchDivision of the High Court of Justice. The highest judicial officerof the realm is the Lord High Chancellor.-- Chief Justice of the United States, the presiding judge of theSupreme Court, and Highest judicial officer of the republic.
CHIEF-JUSTICESHIP
The office of chief justice.Jay selected the chief-justiceship as most in accordance with histastes. The Century.
CHIEFAGE
A tribute by the head; a capitation tax. [Written also chevageand chivage.] [Obs.]
CHIEFEST
First or foremost; chief; principal. [Archaic] "Our chiefestcourtier." Shak.The chiefest among ten thousand. Canticles v. 10.
CHIEFLESS
Without a chief or leader.
CHIEFRIE
A small rent paid to the lord paramount. [Obs.] Swift.
CHIEFTAIN
A captain, leader, or commander; a chief; the head of a troop,army, or clan.
CHIERTE
Love; tender regard. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHIEVANCE
An unlawful bargain; traffic in which money is exported asdiscount. [Obs.] Bacon.
CHIEVE
See Cheve, v. i. [Obs.]
CHIFF-CHAFF
A species of European warbler (Sylvia hippolais); -- calledalso chip-chap, and pettychaps.
CHIFFON
Any merely ornamental adjunct of a woman's dress, as a bunch ofribbon, lace, etc.
CHIGNON
A knot, boss, or mass of hair, natural or artificial, worn by awoman at the back of the head.A curl that had strayed from her chignon. H. James.
CHIH FU
An official administering a prefecture of China; a prefect,supervising the civil business of the hsiens or districts comprisedin his fu (which see).
CHIH HSIEN
An official having charge of a hsien, or administrativedistrict, in China; a district magistrate, responsible for good orderin his hsien (which see), and having jurisdiction in its civil andcriminal cases.
CHIH TAI
A Chinese governor general; a tsung tu (which see).
CHILBLAIN
A blain, sore, or inflammatory swelling, produced by exposureof the feet or hands to cold, and attended by itching, pain, andsometimes ulceration.
CHILD
To give birth; to produce young.This queen Genissa childing died. Warner.It chanced within two days they childed both. Latimer.
CHILD STUDY
A scientific study of children, undertaken for the purpose ofdiscovering the laws of development of the body and the mind frombirth to manhood.
CHILDBEARING
The act of producing or bringing forth children; parturition.Milton. Addison.
CHILDBED
The state of a woman bringing forth a child, or being in labor;parturition.
CHILDBIRTH
The act of bringing forth a child; travail; labor. Jer. Taylor.
CHILDCROWING
The crowing noise made by children affected with spasm of thelaryngeal muscles; false croup.
CHILDE
A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son,until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as,Childe Roland.
CHILDED
Furnished with a child. [Obs.]
CHILDERMAS DAY
A day (December 28) observed by mass or festival incommemoration of the children slain by Herod at Bethlehem; -- calledalso Holy Innocent's Day.
CHILDING
Bearing Children; (Fig.) productive; fruitful. [R.] Shak.
CHILDISHLY
In the manner of a child; in a trifling way; in a weak orfoolish manner.
CHILDISHNESS
The state or quality of being childish; simplicity;harmlessness; weakness of intellect.
CHILDLESSNESS
The state of being childless.
CHILDLIKE
Resembling a child, or that which belongs to children; becominga child; meek; submissive; dutiful. "Childlike obedience." Hooker.
CHILDLY
Having tthe character of a child; belonging, or appropriate, toa child. Gower.
CHILDNESS
The manner characteristic of a child. [Obs.] "Varyingchildness." Shak.
CHILDREN
pl. of Child.
CHILDSHIP
The state or relation of being a child.
CHILEAN
Of or pertaining to Chile.
CHILEAN PINE
Same as Monkey-puzzle.
CHILI
A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum [Written also chilli andchile.]
CHILIAD
A thousand; the aggregate of a thousand things; especially, aperiod of a thousand years.The world, then in the seventh chiliad, will be assumed up unto God.Sir. T. More.
CHILIAGON
A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides. Barlow.
CHILIAHEDRON
A figure bounded by a thousand plane surfaces [Spelt alsochiliaรซdron.]
CHILIAN
Of or pertaining to Chili.-- n.
CHILIARCHY
A body consisting of a thousand men. Mitford.
CHILIAST
One who believes in the second coming of Christ to reign onearth a thousand years; a milllenarian.
CHILIASTIC
Millenarian. "The obstruction offered by the chiliasticerrors." J. A. Alexander.
CHILL
A sensation of cold with convulsive shaking of the body,pinched face, pale skin, and blue lips, caused by undue cooling ofthe body or by nervous excitement, or forming the precursor of someconstitutional disturbance, as of a fever.
CHILLED
Having that cloudiness or dimness of surface that is called"blooming."
CHILLI
See Chili.
CHILLING
Making chilly or cold; depressing; discouraging; cold; distant;as, a chilling breeze; a chilling manner.-- Chill"ing"ly, adv.
CHILLNESS
Coolness; coldness; a chill.Death is the chillness that precedes the dawn. Longfellow.
CHILLY
Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering;causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering.
CHILOGNATH
A myriapod of the order Chilognatha.
CHILOGNATHA
One of the two principal orders of myriapods. They havenumerous segments, each bearing two pairs of small, slender legs,which are attached ventrallly, near together.
CHILOMA
The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel.
CHILOPOD
A myriapod of the order Chilopoda.
CHILOPODA
One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds. Theyhave a single pair of elongated legs attached laterally to eachsegment; well developed jaws; and a pair of thoracic legs convertedinto poison fangs. They are insectivorous, very active, and somespecies grow to the length of a foot.
CHILOSTOMATOUS
Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.
CHILTERN HUNDREDS
A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire,England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. Asmembers of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out theyaccept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats.
CHIMAERA
A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the orderHolocephali. The teeth are few and large. The head is furnished withappendages, and the tail terminates in a point.
CHIMAEROID
Related to, or like, the chimรฆra.
CHIMANGO
A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). SeeCaracara.
CHIMB
The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3. [Writtenalso hime.]
CHIME
See Chine, n., 3.
CHIMER
One who chimes.
CHIMERA
A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having thehead of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon. "Direchimeras and enchanted isles." Milton.
CHIMERE
The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves areusually attached. Hook.
CHIMERIC
Chimerical.
CHIMERICAL
Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainlyconceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except inthought; as, chimerical projects.
CHIMERICALLY
Wildy; vainly; fancifully.
CHIMINAGE
A toll for passage through a forest. [Obs.] Cowell.
CHIMNEY
A body of ore, usually of elongated form, extending downward ina vein. Raymond. Chimney board, a board or screen used to close afireplace; a fireboard.-- Chimney cap, a device to improve the draught of a chimney, bypresenting an exit aperture always to leeward.-- Chimney corner, the space between the sides of the fireplace andthe fire; hence, the fireside.-- Chimney hook, a hook for holding pats and kettles over a fire, --Chimney money, hearth money, a duty formerly paid in England for eachchimney.-- Chimney pot (Arch.), a cylinder of earthenware or sheet metalplaced at the top of a chimney which rises above the roof.-- Chimney swallow. (Zoรถl.) (a) An American swift (Chรฆturepelasgica) which lives in chimneys. (b) In England, the commonswallow (Hirundo rustica).-- Chimney sweep, Chimney sweeper, one who cleans chimneys of soot;esp. a boy who climbs the flue, and brushes off the soot.
CHIMNEY-BREAST
The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in whichit is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of abuilding only.
CHIMNEY-PIECE
A decorative construction around the opning of a fireplace.
CHIMPANZEE
An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytesniger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, thanany other ape. When full grown, it is from three to four feet high.
CHIN
The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches ofthe lower jaw bone, in birds.
CHIN COUGH
Whooping cough.
CHINALDINE
See Quinaldine.
CHINAMAN
A native of China; a Chinese.
CHINCAPIN
See Chinquapin.
CHINCH
The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).
CHINCHA
A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis.
CHINCHE
Parsimonious; niggardly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHINCHERIE
Penuriousness. [Obs.]By cause of his skarsete and chincherie. Caucer.
CHINCHILLA
A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a largesquirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of apearly gray color. It is a native of Peru and Chili.
CHINE
A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chinein the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep.[Prov. Eng.] "The cottage in a chine." J. Ingelow.
CHINESE
Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China. Chinese paper.See India paper, under India.-- Chinese wax, a snowy-wgite, waxlike substance brought from China.It is the bleached secretion of certain insects of the family Coccidรฆespecially Coccus Sinensis.
CHINESE EXCLUSION ACT
Any of several acts forbidding the immigration of Chineselaborers into the United States, originally from 1882 to 1892 by actof May 6, 1882, then from 1892 to 1902 by act May 5, 1892. By act ofApril 29, 1902, all existing legislation on the subject was reรซnactedand continued, and made applicable to the insular possessions of theUnited States.
CHINK
A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length thanbreadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall.Through one cloudless chink, in a black, stormy sky. Shines out thedewy morning star. Macaulay.
CHINKY
Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.Dryden.
CHINNED
Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned.
CHINOIDINE
See Quinodine.
CHINOISERIE
Chinese conduct, art, decoration, or the like; also, a specimenof Chinese manners, art, decoration, etc.
CHINOLINE
See Quinoline.
CHINONE
See Quinone.
CHINOOK
One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in thestate of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls.Chinooks also called Flathead Indians.
CHINOOK STATE
Washington -- a nickname. See Chinook, n.
CHINQUAPIN
A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) ofNorth America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut.Also, its small, sweet, edible nat. [Written also chincapin andchinkapin.] Chinquapin oak, a small shrubby oak (Quercus prinoides)of the Atlantic States, with edible acorns.-- Western Chinquapin, an evergreen shrub or tree (Castanopeschrysophylla) of the Pacific coast. In California it is a shrub; inOregon a tree 30 to 125 feet high.
CHINSE
To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , thepoint of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly. Chinsingiron, a light calking iron.
CHINTZ
Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in anumber of different colors, and often glazed. Swift.
CHIOPPINE
Same as Chopine, n.
CHIP
To break or fly off in small pieces.
CHIPMUNK
A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes calledthe striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee. Thecommon species of the United States is the Tamias striatus. [Writtenalso chipmonk, chipmuck, and chipmuk.]
CHIPPENDALE
Designating furniture designed, or like that designed, byThomas Chippendale, an English cabinetmaker of the 18th century.Chippendale furniture was generally of simple but graceful outlinewith delicately carved rococo ornamentation, sculptured either in thesolid wood or, in the cheaper specimens, separately and glued on. Inthe more elaborate pieces three types are recognized: FrenchChippendale, having much detail, like Louis Quatorze and LouisQuinze; Chinese Chippendale, marked by latticework and pagodalikepediments; and Gothic Chippendale, attempting to adapt medievaldetails. The forms, as of the cabriole and chairbacks, often resembleQueen Anne. In chairs, the seat is widened at the front, and the backtoward the top widened and bent backward, except in ChineseChippendale, in which the backs are usually rectangular. --Chip"pen*dal*ism (#), n.
CHIPPER
To chirp or chirrup. [ Prov. Eng.] Forby.
CHIPPEWAYS
A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern andweastern shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.
CHIPPING BIRD
The chippy.
CHIPPING SQUIRREL
See Chipmunk.
CHIPPY
Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless.
CHIPS
A ship's carpenter. [Cant.]
CHIRAGRA
Gout in the hand.
CHIRAGRICAL
Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease. Sir.T. Browne.
CHIRETTA
A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, havingmedicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic andfebrifuge.
CHIRK
To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up. [Colloq. New Eng. ]
CHIRM
To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. [Obs.] Huloet.
CHIROGNOMY
The art of judging character by the shape and apperance of thehand.
CHIROGRAPHER
Of or pertaining to chirography.
CHIROGYMNAST
A mechanocal contrivance for exercesing the fingers of apianist.
CHIROLOGICAL
Relating to chirology.
CHIROLOGIST
One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands andfingers.
CHIROLOGY
The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or ofcommunicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; asubstitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with thedeaf and dumb. See Dactylalogy.
CHIROMANCER
One who practices chiromancy. Dryden.
CHIROMANCY
The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling thefortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand;palmistry.
CHIROMONIC
Relating to chironomy.
CHIRONOMY
The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture[Obs.]
CHIROPLAST
An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils inplaying on the piano, etc.
CHIROPODIST
One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, onewho removes corns and bunions.
CHIROPODY
The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet.
CHIROSOPHIST
A fortune teller.
CHIRP
To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets.
CHIRPER
One who chirps, or is cheerful.
CHIRPING
Cheering; enlivening.He takes his chirping pint, he cracks his jokes. Pope.
CHIRPINGLY
In a chirping manner.
CHIRRE
To coo, as a pigeon. [Obs.]
CHIRRUP
To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.
CHIRRUPY
Cheerful; joyous; chatty.
CHIRURGEON
A surgeon. [Obs.]
CHIRURGEONLY
Surgically. [Obs.] Shak.
CHIRURGERY
Surgery. [Obs.]
CHISEL
A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used indressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; --usually driven by a mallet or hammer. Cold chisel. See under Cold, a.
CHISLEU
The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering toa part of November with a part of December.
CHISLEY
Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said ofa soil. Gardner.
CHIT
To shoot out; to sprout.I have known barley chit in seven hours after it had been thrownforth. Mortimer.
CHITCHAT
Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.
CHITIN
A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part ofthe outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various otherinvertebrates; entomolin.
CHITINIZATION
The process of becoming chitinous.
CHITINOUS
Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing,chitin.
CHITON
One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed ofeight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora.
CHITTERLING
The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed outresembled the small entrails. See Chitterlings. [Obs.] Gascoigne.
CHITTERLINGS
The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food.
CHITTRA
The axis deer of India.
CHIVACHIE
A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHIVALRIC
Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous.
CHIVALROUS
Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic;gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.In brave pursuit of chivalrous emprise. Spenser.
CHIVALROUSLY
In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.
CHIVALRY
A tenure of lands by knight's service; that is, by thecondition of a knight's performing service on horseback, or ofperforming some noble or military service to his lord.
CHIVE
A filament of a stamen. [Obs.]
CHIVY
To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.
CHLAMYDATE
Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.
CHLAMYPHORE
A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C.retusus) allied to the armadillo. It is covered with a leathery shellor coat of mail, like a cloak, attached along the spine.
CHLAMYS
A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks;a kind of cloak.
CHLOASMA
A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowishbrown pigmented spots.
CHLORAL
A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harshtaste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethylalcohol.
CHLORALAMIDE
A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep.
CHLORALISM
A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive useof chloral.
CHLORALUM
An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as anantiseptic and disinfectant.
CHLORANIL
A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as aderivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certainbenzene derivatives, as aniline.
CHLORATE
A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium.
CHLORAURATE
See Aurochloride.
CHLORHYDRIC
Same as Hydrochloric.
CHLORHYDRIN
One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasicalcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorinefor one or more hydroxyl groups.
CHLORIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of thosecompounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, orthe next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3. Chloric ether(Chem.), ethylene dichloride. See Dutch liquid, under Dutch.
CHLORIDATE
To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chlorideof silver, for the purposes of photography. R. Hunt.
CHLORIDE
A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical;as, chloride of sodium (common salt). Chloride of ammonium, salammoniac.-- Chloride of lime, bleaching powder; a grayish white substance,CaOClcalcium hypochlorite. See Hypochlorous acid, under Hypochlorous.-- Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate.
CHLORIDIC
Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride.
CHLORIDIZE
See Chloridate.
CHLORIMETRY
See Chlorometry.
CHLORINATE
To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine.
CHLORINATION
The act or process of subjecting anything to the action ofchlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold byexposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas.
CHLORINE
One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as agreenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of anintensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous.It is abundant in nature, the most important compound being commonsalt. It is powerful oxidizing, bleaching, and disinfecting agent.Symbol Cl. Atomic weight, 35.4. Chlorine family, the elementsfluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine, called the halogens, andclassed together from their common peculiariries.
CHLORIODIC
Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine andiodine.
CHLORIODINE
A compound of chlorine and iodine. [R.]
CHLORITE
The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color andmicaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates ofalumina, iron, and magnesia. Chlorite slate, a schistose or slatyrock consisting of alumina, iron, and magnesia.
CHLORITIC
Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand.
CHLORMETHANE
A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to aliquid; -- called also methyl chloride.
CHLORO-
A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in thesubstance named.
CHLOROCRUORIN
A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green colorof the blood in some species of worms. Ray Lankester.
CHLORODYNE
A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indianhemp, etc.
CHLOROFORM
A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor anda sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and analkali. It is a powerful solvent of wax, resin, etc., and isextensively used to produce anรฆsthesia in surgical operations; alsoexternally, to alleviate pain.
CHLOROLEUCITE
Same as Chloroplastid.
CHLOROMETER
An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power ofchloride of lime.
CHLOROMETRY
The process of testing the bleaching power of any combinationof chlorine.
CHLOROPAL
A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like inappearance. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of iron.
CHLOROPEPTIC
Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin-hydrochloric acid.
CHLOROPHANE
A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautifulemerald green light.
CHLOROPHYLL
Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in thecells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, towhich they owe their green color, and through which all ordinaryassimilation of plant food takes place. Similar chlorophyll granuleshave been found in the tissues of the lower animals. [Written alsochlorophyl.]
CHLOROPLAST
A plastid containing chlorophyll, developed only in cellsexposed to the light. Chloroplasts are minute flattened granules,usually occurring in great numbers in the cytoplasm near the cellwall, and consist of a colorless ground substance saturated withchlorophyll pigments. Under light of varying intensity they exhibitphototactic movements. In animals chloroplasts occur only in certainlow forms.
CHLOROPLASTID
A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite.
CHLOROPLATINIC
See Platinichloric.
CHLOROSIS
The green sickness; an anรฆmic disease of young women,characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin,weakness, palpitation, etc.
CHLOROTIC
Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis.
CHLOROUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, the electro-negative character ofchlorine; hence, electro-negative; -- opposed to basylous or zincous.[Obs.]
CHLORPICRIN
A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor,obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine.[Written also chloropikrin.]
CHLORURET
A chloride. [Obs.]
CHOAK
See Choke.
CHOANOID
Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscleattached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals.
CHOCARD
The chough.
CHOCK
To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, tochock a wheel or cask.
CHOCK-FULL
Quite full; choke-full.
CHOCKABLOCK
Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought closetogether, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.
CHOCTAWS
; sing. Choctaw. (Ethnol.) A tribe of North American Indians(Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit ofagriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers. Theyare now one of the civilized tribes of the Indian Territory.
CHODE
the old imp. of chide. See Chide.
CHOGSET
See Cunner.
CHOICEFUL
Making choices; fickle. [Obs.]His choiceful sense with every change doth fit. Spenser.
CHOICENESS
The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely;excellence.
CHOIR
The chancel. Choir organ (Mus.), one of the three or fivedistinct organs included in the full organ, each separable from therest, but all controlled by one performer; a portion of the fullorgan, complete in itself, and more practicable for ordinary serviceand in the accompanying of the vocal choir.-- Choir screen, Choir wall (Arch.), a screen or low wall separatingthe choir from the aisles.-- Choir service, the service of singing performed by the choir. T.Warton.
CHOKE DAMP
See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.
CHOKE-FULL
Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.
CHOKE-STRAP
A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of thecollar, to keep the collar in place.
CHOKEBERRY
The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an Americanshrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub.
CHOKEBORE
To provide with a chokebore.
CHOKECHERRY
The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (PrunusVirginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.
CHOKEDAR
A watchman; an officer of customs or police. [India]
CHOKING COIL
A coil of small resistance and large inductance, used in analternating-current circuit to impede or throttle the current, or tochange its phase; --called also reactance coil or reactor, theseterms being now preferred in engineering usage.
CHOLAEMAA
A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependentupon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.
CHOLAGOGUE
Promoting the discharge of bile from the system.-- n.
CHOLATE
A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate.
CHOLECYSTIS
The gall bladder.
CHOLECYSTOTOMY
The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as forthe removal of a gallstone.
CHOLEDOLOGY
A treatise on the bile and bilary organs. Dunglison.
CHOLEIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid.
CHOLERA
One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinaltract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonlycalled Asiatic cholera. Asiatic cholera, a malignant and rapidlyfatal disease, originating in Asia and frequently epidemic in themore filthy sections of other lands, to which the germ or specificpoison may have been carried. It is characterized by diarrhea, rice-water evacuations, vomiting, cramps, pinched expression, andlividity, rapidly passing into a state of collapse, followed bydeath, or by a stage of reaction of fever.-- Cholera bacillus. See Comma bacillus.-- Cholera infantum, a dangerous summer disease, of infants, causedby hot weather, bad air, or poor milk, and especially fatal in largecities.-- Cholera morbus, a disease characterized by vomiting and purging,with gripings and cramps, usually caused by imprudence in diet or bygastrointestinal disturbance.-- Chicken cholera. See under Chicken.-- Hog cholera. See under Hog.-- Sporadic cholera, a disease somewhat resembling the Asiaticcholera, but originating where it occurs, and rarely becomingepidemic.
CHOLERAIC
Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.
CHOLERICLY
In a choleric manner; angrily.
CHOLERIFORM
Resembling cholera.
CHOLEROID
Choleriform.
CHOLESTERIC
Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholestericacid. Ure.
CHOLESTERIN
A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless,found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially innerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.
CHOLINE
See Neurine.
CHOLOCHROME
See Bilirubin.
CHOLOPHAEIN
See Bilirubin.
CHOLTRY
A Hindoo caravansary.
CHOMAGE
Stoppage; cessation (of labor).
CHOMP
To chew loudly and greedily; to champ. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Halliwell.
CHONDRIFICATION
Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage.
CHONDRIFY
To convert, or be converted, into cartilage.
CHONDRIGEN
The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling inwater into a gelatinous body called chondrin.
CHONDRIGENOUS
Affording chondrin.
CHONDRIN
A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless andodorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued actionof boiling water. It is similar to gelatin, and is a large ingredientof commercial gelatin.
CHONDRITE
A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules.
CHONDRITIC
Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structurecharacteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.
CHONDRITIS
An inflammation of cartilage.
CHONDRO-
A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage,cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of thelower vertebrates and of embryos.
CHONDRODITE
A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color,often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone.
CHONDROGANOIDEA
An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- socalled on account of their cartilaginous skeleton.
CHONDROGEN
Same as Chondrigen.
CHONDROGENESIS
The development of cartilage.
CHONDROID
Resembling cartilage.
CHONDROLOGY
The science which treats of cartilages. Dunglison.
CHONDROMA
A cartilaginous tumor or growth.
CHONDROMETER
A steelyard for weighting grain.
CHONDROPTERYGIAN
Having a cartilaginous skeleton.-- n.
CHONDROPTERYGII
A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins andskeleton. It includes both ganoids (sturgeons, etc.) and selachians(sharks), but is now often restricted to the latter. [Written alsoChondropterygia.]
CHONDROSTEI
An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so namedbecause the skeleton is cartilaginous.
CHONDROTOMY
The dissection of cartilages.
CHONDRULE
A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatiteor chrysolite, found imdedded more or less aboundantly in the mass ofmany meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites.
CHOOSER
One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; anelector. Burke.
CHOP
To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about.
CHOP-LOGIC
One who bandies words or is very argunentative. [Jocular] Shak.
CHOPBOAT
A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods toand from vessels. [China] S. W. Williams.
CHOPCHURCH
An exchanger or an exchange of benefices. [Cant]
CHOPFALLEN
Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen;dejected; dispirited;downcast. See Chapfallen.
CHOPHOUSE
A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.The freedom of a chophouse. W. Irving.
CHOPIN
A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain,varying from half a pint to a wine quart.
CHOPINE
A clog, or patten, having a very thick sole, or in some casesraised upon a stilt to a height of a foot or more. [Variously speltchioppine, chopin, etc.]Your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by thealtitude of a chopine. Shak.
CHOPNESS
A kind of spade. [Eng.]
CHOPPER
One who, or that which, chops.
CHOPPING
Stout or plump; large. [Obs.] Fenton.
CHOPPY
Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea.
CHOPSTICK
One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by theChinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth.
CHORAGIC
Of or pertaining to a choragus. Choragic monument, a buildingor column built by a victorious choragus for the reception andexhibition of the tripod which he received as a prize. Those ofLysicrates and Thrasyllus are still to be seen at Athens.
CHORAGUS
A chorus leader; esp. one who provided at his own expense andunder his own supervision one of the choruses for the musicalcontents at Athens.
CHORAL
Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, oradapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony. Choral service, a serviceof song.
CHORALIST
A singer or composer of chorals.
CHORALLY
In the manner of a chorus; adapted to be sung by a choir; inharmony.
CHORD
A combination of tones simultaneously performed, producing moreor less perfect harmony, as, the common chord.
CHORDA
A cord. Chorda dorsalis (. Etym: [NL., lit., cord of the back.](Anat.) See Notochord.
CHORDAL
Of or pertaining to a chord.
CHORDATA
A comprehensive division of animals including all Vertebratatogether with the Tunicata, or all those having a dorsal nervouscord.
CHORDEE
A painful erection of the penis, usually with downwardcurvature, occurring in gonorrhea.
CHORE
A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of ahousehold or farm, either within or without doors. [U. S.]
CHOREA
St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsivetwitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs.
CHOREE
See Choreus.
CHOREGRAPHY
The art of representing dancing by signs, as music isrepresented by notes. Craig.
CHOREIC
Of the nature of, or pertaining to, chorea; convulsive.
CHOREPISCOPAL
Pertaining to a chorepiscopus or his change or authority.
CHOREPISCOPUS
A "country" or suffragan bishop, appointed in the ancientchurch by a diocesan bishop to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in arural district.
CHORIAMB
Same as Choriambus.
CHORIAMBIC
Pertaining to a choriamb.-- n.
CHORIAMBUS
A foot consisting of four syllables, of which the first andlast are long, and the other short (- ~ ~ -); that is, a choreus, ortrochee, and an iambus united.
CHORIC
Of or pertaining to a chorus.I remember a choric ode in the Hecuba. Coleridge.
CHORION
The outer membrane of seeds of plants.
CHORISIS
The separation of a leaf or floral organ into two more parts.
CHORIST
A singer in a choir; a chorister. [R.]
CHORISTIC
Choric; choral. [R.]
CHOROGRAPH
An instrument for constructing triangles in marine surveying,etc.
CHOROGRAPHICAL
Pertaining to chorography.-- Cho`ro*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
CHOROGRAPHY
the mapping or description of a region or district.The chorography of their provinces. Sir T. Browne.
CHOROID
resembling the chorion; as, the choroid plexuses of theventricles of the brain, and the choroid coat of the eyeball.-- n.
CHOROIDAL
Pertaining to the choroid coat.
CHOROLOGY
The science which treats of the laws of distribution of livingorganisms over the earth's surface as to latitude, altitude,locality, etc.Its distribution or chorology. Huxley.
CHOROMETRY
The art of surveying a region or district.
CHORTLE
A word coined by Lewis Carroll (Charles L. Dodgson), andusually explained as a combination of chuckle and snort. [Humorous]
CHORUS
A band of singers and dancers.The Grecian tragedy was at first nothing but a chorus of singers.Dryden.
CHOSE
A thing; personal property. Chose in action, a thing of whichone has not possession or actual enjoyment, but only a right to it,or a right to demand it by action at law, and which does not exist atthe time in specie; a personal right to a thing not reduced topossession, but recoverable by suit at law; as a right to recovermoney due on a contract, or damages for a tort, which can not beenforced against a reluctant party without suit.-- Chose in possession, a thing in possession, as distinguished froma thing in action.-- Chose local, a thing annexed to a place, as a mill.-- Chose transitory, a thing which is movable. Cowell. Blount.
CHOSEN
Selected from a number; picked out; choice.Seven hundred chosen men left-handed. Judg. xx. 16.
CHOUAN
One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany,etc.), during and after the French revolution.
CHOUGH
A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe. It isof a black color, with a long, slender, curved bill and red legs; --also called chauk, chauk-daw, chocard, Cornish chough, red-leggedcrow. The name is also applied to several allied birds, as the Alpinechough. Cornish chough (Her.), a bird represented black, with redfeet, and beak; -- called also aylet and sea swallow.
CHOUICHA
The salmon of the Columbia River or California. See Quinnat.
CHOUKA
The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara.
CHOULE
See Jowl. Sir W. Scott.
CHOULTRY
See Choltry.
CHOUSE
To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, tochouse one out of his money. [Colloq.]The undertaker of the afore-cited poesy hath choused your highness.Landor.
CHOUT
An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue. [India] J.Mill.
CHOW
A prefecture or district of the second rank in China, or thechief city of such a district; -- often part of the name of a city,as in Foochow.
CHOWCHOW
Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as,chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).
CHOWDER
A dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit, onions, etc.,stewed together.
CHOWRY
A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies. Malcom.
CHOWTER
To grumble or mutter like a froward child. [Obs.] E. Phillips.
CHOY ROOT
See Chay root.
CHREMATISTICS
The science of wealth; the science, or a branch of the science,of political economy.
CHREOTECHNICS
The science of the useful arts, esp. agriculture, manufactures,and commerce. [R.]
CHRESTOMATHIC
Teaching what is useful. "A chrestomathic school." Southey.
CHRESTOMATHY
A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used inacquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy.
CHRISMAL
Of or pertaining to or used in chrism.
CHRISMATION
The act of applying the chrism, or consecrated oil.Chrismation or cross-signing with ointment, was used in baptism. Jer.Taylor.
CHRISMATORY
A cruet or vessel in which chrism is kept.
CHRIST
The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It issynonymous with the Hebrew Messiah.
CHRISTCROSS-ROW
The alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the crossusually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimespracticed, of writing it in the form of a cross, by way of a charm.From infant conning of the Christcross-row. Wordsworth.
CHRISTIAN ERA
The era in use in all Christian countries, which was intendedto commence with the birth of Christ. The era as now established wasfirst used by Dionysius Exiguus (died about 540), who placed thebirth of Christ on the 25th of December in the year of Rome 754,which year he counted as 1 a. d. This date for Christ's birth is nowgenerally thought to be about four years too late.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
A system of healing disease of mind and body which teaches thatall cause and effect is mental, and that sin, sickness, and deathwill be destroyed by a full understanding of the Divine Principle ofJesus' teaching and healing. The system was founded by Rev. MaryBaker Glover Eddy, of Concord, N. H., in 1866, and bases its teachingon the Scriptures as understood by its adherents.
CHRISTIAN SCIENTIST
A believer in Christian Science; one who practices itsteachings.
CHRISTIAN SENECA
Joseph Hall (1574 -- 1656), Bishop of Norwich, a divine eminentas a moralist.
CHRISTIAN SOCIALISM
Any theory or system that aims to combine the teachings ofChrist with the teachings of socialism in their applications to life;Christianized socialism; esp., the principles of this natureadvocated by F. D. Maurice, Charles Kingsley, and others in Englandabout 1850. -- Christian socialist.
CHRISTIANIZATION
The act or process of converting or being converted to a trueChristianity.
CHRISTIANIZE
To adopt the character or belief of a Christian; to becomeChristian.The pagans began to Christianize. Latham.
CHRISTIANLIKE
Becoming to a Christian.A virtuous and a Christianlike conclusion. Shak.
CHRISTIANLY
In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion.Sufferings . . . patiently and Christianly borne. Sharp.
CHRISTIANNESS
Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity. [Obs.] Hammond.
CHRISTLESS
Without faith in Christ; unchristian. Tennyson.
CHRISTLIKE
Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc.-- Christ"like`ness, n.
CHRISTLY
Christlike. H. Bushnell.
CHRISTMAS
An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States alegal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated bya particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings,and hospitality. Christmas box. (a) A box in which presents aredeposited at Christmas. (b) A present or small gratuity given toyoung people and servants at Christmas; a Christmas gift.-- Christmas carol, a carol sung at, or suitable for, Christmas.-- Christmas day. Same as Christmas.-- Christmas eve, the evening before Christmas.-- Christmas fern (Bot.), an evergreen North American fern (Aspidiumacrostichoides), which is much used for decoration in winter.-- Christmas flower, Christmas rose, the black hellebore, apoisonous plant of the buttercup family, which in Southern Europeoften produces beautiful roselike flowers midwinter.-- Christmas tree, a small evergreen tree, set up indoors, to bedecorated with bonbons, presents, etc., and illuminated on Christmaseve.
CHRISTMASTIDE
The season of Christmas.
CHRISTOCENTRIC
Making Christ the center, about whom all things are grouped, asin religion or history; tending toward Christ, as the central objectof thought or emotion. J. W. Chadwick.
CHRISTOLOGY
A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treatsof the personality, attributes, or life of Christ.
CHRISTOM
See Chrisom. [Obs.] Shak.
CHRISTOPHANY
An appearance of Christ, as to his disciples after thecrucifixion.
CHROMASCOPE
An instrument for showing the optical effects of color.
CHROMATE
A salt of chromic acid.
CHROMATIC
Proceeding by the smaller intervals (half steps or semitones)of the scale, instead of the regular intervals of the diatonic scale.
CHROMATICAL
Chromatic. [Obs.]
CHROMATICALLY
In a chromatic manner.
CHROMATICS
The science of colors; that part of optics which treats of theproperties of colors.
CHROMATIN
Tissue which is capable of being stained by dyes.
CHROMATISM
The state of being colored, as in the case of images formed bya lens.
CHROMATOGENOUS
Producing color.
CHROMATOGRAPHY
A treatise on colors
CHROMATOLOGY
A treatise on colors.
CHROMATOPHORE
A contractile cell or vesicle containing liquid pigment andcapable of changing its form or size, thus causing changes of colorin the translucent skin of such animals as possess them. They arehighly developed and numerous in the cephalopods.
CHROMATOSCOPE
A reflecting telescope, part of which is made to rotateeccentrically, so as to produce a ringlike image of a star, insteadof a point; -- used in studying the scintillation of the stars.
CHROMATOSPHERE
A chromosphere. [R.]
CHROMATROPE
An instrument for exhibiting certain chromatic effects of light(depending upon the persistence of vision and mixture of colors) bymeans of rapidly rotating disks variously colored.
CHROMATYPE
A colored photographic picture taken upon paper made sensitivewith potassium bichromate or some other salt of chromium.
CHROME
Same as Chromium. Chrome alum (Chem.), a dark violet substance,(SO4)3Cr2.K2SO4.24H2O, analogous to, and crystallizing like, commonalum. It is regarded as a double sulphate of chromium and potassium.-- Chrome green (a) The green oxide of chromium, Cr2O3, used inenamel painting, and glass staining. (b) A pigment made by mixingchrome yellow with Prussian blue.-- Chrome red, a beautiful red pigment originally prepared from thebasic chromate of lead, but now made from red oxide of lead.-- Chrome yellow, a brilliant yellow pigment, PbCrO4, used bypainters.
CHROME STEEL
Same as Chromium steel, under Steel.
CHROMIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, chromium; -- said of thecompounds of chromium in which it has its higher valence. Chromicacid, an acid, H2CrO4, analogous to sulphuric acid, not readilyobtained in the free state, but forming well known salts, many ofwhich are colored pigments, as chrome yellow, chrome red, etc.-- Chromic anhydride, a brilliant red crystalline substance, CrO3,regarded as the anhydride of chromic acid. It is one of the mostpowerful oxidizers known.
CHROMID
One of the Chromidรฆ, a family of fresh-water fishes abundant inthe tropical parts of America and Africa. Some are valuable foodfishes, as the bulti of the Nile.
CHROMIDROSIS
Secretion of abnormally colored perspiration.
CHROMISM
Same as Chromatism.
CHROMITE
A black submetallic mineral consisting of oxide of chromium andiron; -- called also chromic iron.
CHROMIUM
A comparatively rare element occurring most abundantly in themineral chromite. Atomic weight 52.5. Symbol Cr. When isolated it isa hard, brittle, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty. Itschief commercial importance is for its compounds, as potassiumchromate, lead chromate, etc., which are brilliantly colored and areused dyeing and calico printing. Called also chrome.
CHROMO
A chromolithograph.
CHROMOBLAST
An embryonic cell which develops into a pigment cell.
CHROMOGEN
Vegetable coloring matter other than green; chromule.
CHROMOGENIC
Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenicbacteria.
CHROMOGRAPH
An apparatus by which a number of copies of written matter,maps, plans, etc., can be made; -- called also hectograph.
CHROMOLEUCITE
A chromoplastid.
CHROMOLITHOGRAPH
A picture printed in tints and colors by repeated impressionsfrom a series of stones prepared by the lithographic process.
CHROMOLITHOGRAPHER
One who is engaged in chromolithography.
CHROMOLITHOGRAPHIC
Pertaining to, or made by, chromolithography.
CHROMOLITHOGRAPHY
Lithography adapted to printing in inks of various colors.
CHROMOPHANE
A general name for the several coloring matters, red, green,yellow, etc., present in the inner segments in the cones of theretina, held in solution by fats, and slowly decolorized by light;distinct from the photochemical pigments of the rods of the retina.
CHROMOPHORE
Any chemical group or residue (as NO
CHROMOPHOTOGRAPH
A picture made by any of the processes for reproducingphotographs in colors. --Chro`mo*pho`to*graph"ic (#), a.
CHROMOPHOTOGRAPHY
The art of producing photographs in colors.
CHROMOPHOTOLITHOGRAPH
A photolithograph printed in colors.
CHROMOPLASTID
A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- alsocalled chromoleucite.
CHROMOSOME
One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of thenucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant ofWeismann.
CHROMOSPHERE
An atmosphere of rare matter, composed principally ofincandescent hydrogen gas, surrounding the sun and enveloping thephotosphere. Portions of the chromosphere are here and there thrownup into enormous tongues of flame.
CHROMOSPHERIC
Of or pertaining to the chromosphere.
CHROMOUS
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chromium, when this elementhas a valence lower than that in chromic compounds. Chromous acid, abluish gray powder, CrO.OH, of weak acid properties and regard as anacid.
CHROMULE
A general name for coloring matter of plants other thanchlorophyll, especially that of petals.
CHRONICAL
Chronic.Partly on a chronical, and partly on a topical method. J. A.Alexander.
CHRONICLE
The two canonical books of the Old Testament in whichimmediately follow 2 Kings.
CHRONICLER
A writer of a chronicle; a recorder of events in the order oftime; an historian.Such an honest chronicler as Griffith. Shak.
CHRONIQUE
A chronicle. L. Addison.
CHRONOGRAM
Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one.
CHRONOGRAMMATIST
A writer of chronograms.
CHRONOGRAPHER
One who writes a chronography; a chronologer. Tooke.
CHRONOGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to a chronograph.
CHRONOGRAPHY
A description or record of past time; history. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
CHRONOLOGER
Same as Chronologist.
CHRONOLOGY
The science which treats of measuring time by regular divisionsor periods, and which assigns to events or transactions their properdates.If history without chronology is dark and confused, chronologywithout history is dry and insipid. A. Holmes.
CHRONOMETER
A metronome. Box chronometer. See under Box.-- Pocket chronometer, a chronometer in the form of a large watch.-- To rate a chronometer. See Rate, v. t.
CHRONOMETRY
The art of measuring time; the measuring of time by periods ordivisions.
CHRONOPHER
An instrument signaling the correct time to distant points byelectricity.
CHRONOPHOTOGRAPH
One of a set of photographs of a moving object, taken for thepurpose of recording and exhibiting successive phases of the motion.--Chron`o*pho*tog"ra*phy, n.
CHRONOSCOPE
An instrument for measuring minute intervals of time; used indetermining the velocity of projectiles, the duration of short-livedluminous phenomena, etc.
CHRYSALID
Pertaining to a chrysalis; resembling a chrysalis.
CHRYSALIS
The pupa state of certain insects, esp. of butterflies, fromwhich the perfect insect emerges. See Pupa, and Aurelia (a).
CHRYSANILINE
A yellow substance obtained as a by-product in the manufactureof rosaniline. It dyes silk a fine golden-yellow color.
CHRYSANTHEMUM
A genus of composite plants, mostly perennial, and of manyspecies including the many varieties of garden chrysanthemums (annualand perennial), and also the feverfew and the oxeye daisy.
CHRYSAROBIN
A bitter, yellow substance forming the essential constituent ofGoa powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid proper; hence formerlycalled also chrysphanic acid.
CHRYSAURIN
An orange-colored dyestuff, of artificial production.
CHRYSELEPHANTINE
Composed of, or adorned with, gold and ivory.
CHRYSENE
One of the higher aromatic hydrocarbons of coal tar, allied tonapthalene and anthracene. It is a white crystalline substance,C18H12, of strong blue fluorescence, but generally colored yellow byimpurities.
CHRYSOBERYL
A mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or browncolor, and consisting of aluminia and glucina. It is very hard, andis often used as a gem.
CHRYSOCHLORE
A South African mole of the genus Chrysochloris; the goldenmole, the fur of which reflects brilliant metallic hues of green andgold.
CHRYSOCOLLA
A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring massive, of a blue orgreenish blue color.
CHRYSOGEN
A yellow crystalline substance extracted from crude anthracene.
CHRYSOIDINE
An artificial, yellow, crystalline dye, C6H5N2.C6H3(NH2)2.Also, one of a group of dyestuffs resembling chrysoรฏdine proper.
CHRYSOLITE
A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, and iron, of a yellowto green color. It is common in certain volcanic rocks; -- calledalso olivine and peridot. Sometimes used as a gem. The name was alsoearly used for yellow varieties of tourmaline and topaz.
CHRYSOLOGY
That branch of political economy which relates to theproduction of wealth.
CHRYSOPA
A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing.
CHRYSOPHANE
A glucoside extracted from rhubarb as a bitter, yellow,crystalline powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid on decomposition.
CHRYSOPHANIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, or resembling, chrysophane.Chrysophanic acid (Chem.), a yellow crystalline substance extractedfrom rhubarb, yellow dock, sienna, chrysarobin, etc., and shown to bea derivative of an anthracene. It is used in the treatment of skindiseases; -- called also rhein, rheic acid, rhubarbarin, etc.
CHRYSOPRASE
An apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel. It hasa dull flinty luster, and is sometimes used in jewelry.
CHRYSOPRASUS
See Chrysoprase. Rev. xxi. 20.
CHRYSOSPERM
The seed of gold; a means of creating gold. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
CHTHONIAN
Designating, or pertaining to, gods or spirits of theunderworld; esp., relating to the underworld gods of the Greeks,whose worship is widely considered as more primitive in form thanthat of the Olympian gods. The characteristics of chthonian worshipare propitiatory and magical rites and generalized or euphemisticnames of the deities, which are supposed to have been primarilyghosts.
CHTHONIC
Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions.[The] chthonic character of the wife of Zeus. Max Mรผller.
CHUB
A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidรฆ or Carp family.The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. InAmerica the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, ofthe genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally toseveral very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc. Chubmackerel (Zoรถl.), a species of mackerel (Scomber colias) in someyears found in abundance on the Atlantic coast, but absent in others;-- called also bull mackerel, thimble-eye, and big-eye mackerel.-- Chub sucker (Zoรถl.), a fresh-water fish of the United States(Erimyzon sucetta); -- called also creekfish.
CHUB-FACED
Having a plump, short face.
CHUBBED
Chubby. [R.] H. Brooke.
CHUBBEDNESS
The state of being chubby.
CHUBBY
Like a chub; plump, short, and thick. "Chubby faces." I.Taylor.
CHUCK
To call, as a hen her chickens. Dryden.
CHUCKLE
A short, suppressed laugh; the expression of satisfaction,exultation, or derision.
CHUCKLEHEAD
A person with a large head; a numskull; a dunce. [Low] Knowles.
CHUCKLEHEADED
Having a large head; thickheaded; dull; stupid. Smart.
CHUD
To champ; to bite. [Obs.] A. Stafford.
CHUET
Minced meat. [Obs.] Bacon.
CHUFA
A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers,native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; theearth almond.
CHUFF
A coarse or stupid fellow. Shak.
CHUFFILY
Clownishly; surlily.
CHUFFINESS
The quality of being chuffy.
CHULAN
The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used inChina for perfuming tea.
CHUM
A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old andintimate friend.
CHUMP
A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. Morton. Chump end, thethick end; as, the chump end of a joint of meat. Dickens.
CHUNAM
Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar. [India] Whitworth.
CHUNK
A short, thick piece of anything. [Colloq. U. S. & Prov. Eng.]
CHUNKY
Short and thick. [U. S.] Kane.
CHUPATTY
A kind of griddlecake of unleavened bread, used among thenatives of India. [Anglo-Indian]
CHURCH
To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with inpublicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from thedangers of childbirth; as, the churching of women.
CHURCH MODES
The modes or scales used in ancient church music. SeeGregorian.
CHURCH-ALE
A church or parish festival (as in commemoration of thededication of a church), at which much ale was used. Wright. Nares.
CHURCH-BENCH
A seat in the porch of a church. Shak.
CHURCH-HAW
Churchyard. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CHURCHDOM
The institution, government, or authority of a church. [R.] Bp.Pearson.
CHURCHGOER
One who attends church.
CHURCHISM
Strict adherence to the forms or principles of some churchorganization; sectarianism.
CHURCHLESS
Without a church. T. Fuller.
CHURCHLIKE
Befitting a church or a churchman; becoming to a clergyman.Shak.
CHURCHLINESS
Regard for the church.
CHURCHLY
Pertaining to, or suitable for, the church; ecclesiastical.
CHURCHMANLY
Pertaining to, or becoming, a churchman. Milman.
CHURCHMANSHIP
The state or quality of being a churchman; attachment to thechurch.
CHURCHSHIP
State of being a church. South.
CHURCHWARDENSHIP
The office of a churchwarden.
CHURCHY
Relating to a church; unduly fond of church forms. [Colloq.]
CHURCHYARD
The ground adjoining a church, in which the dead are buried; acemetery.Like graves in the holy churchyard. Shak.
CHURL
Churlish; rough; selfish. [Obs.] Ford.
CHURLISHLY
In a churlish manner.
CHURLISHNESS
Rudeness of manners or temper; lack of kindness or courtesy.
CHURLY
Rude; churlish; violent. Longfellow.
CHURN
A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, orotherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order toseparete the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter.
CHURR
A vibrant or whirring noise such as that made by some insects,as the cockchafer, or by some birds, as the nightjar, the partridge,etc.
CHURRUS
A powerfully narcotic and intoxicating gum resin which exudesfrom the flower heads, seeds, etc., of Indian hemp.
CHURRWORM
An insect that turns about nimbly; the mole cricket; -- calledalso fan cricket. Johnson.
CHUSE
See Choose. [Obs.]
CHUTE
A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compoundedof various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc.
CHYLACEOUS
Possessed of the properties of chyle; consisting of chyle.
CHYLAQUEOUS
Consisting of chyle much diluted with water; -- said of aliquid which forms the circulating fluid of some inferior animals.
CHYLE
A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in astate of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme bythe action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals,and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct.
CHYLIFACTION
The act or process by which chyle is formed from food in animalbodies; chylification, -- a digestive process.
CHYLIFACTIVE
Producing, or converting into, chyle; having the power to formchyle.
CHYLIFEROUS
[Chyle + -ferous: cf. F. chylifรจre.] (Physiol.) Transmitting orconveying chyle; as, chyliferous vessels.
CHYLIFIC
Chylifactive.
CHYLIFICATION
The formation of chyle. See Chylifaction.
CHYLIFICATORY
Chylifactive.
CHYLIFY
To make chyle of; to be converted into chyle.
CHYLOPOETIC
Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoeticorgans.
CHYLOUS
Consisting of, or similar to, chyle.
CHYLURIA
A morbid condition in which the urine contains chyle or fattymatter, giving it a milky appearance.
CHYME
The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestinesjust after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in theintestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle.
CHYMIFEROUS
Bearing or containing chyme.
CHYMIFICATION
The conversion of food into chyme by the digestive action ofgastric juice.
CHYMIFY
To form into chyme.
CHYMOUS
Of or pertaining to chyme.
CHYOMETER
An instrument for measuring liquids. It consists of a pistonmoving in a tube in which is contained the liquid, the quantityexpelled being indicated by the graduation upon the piston rod.
CI-DEVANT
Former; previous; of times gone by; as, a cidevant governor.
CIBARIOUS
Pertaining to food; edible. Johnson.
CIBATION
The process or operation of feeding the contents of thecrucilbe with fresh material. B. Jonson.
CIBOL
A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimescalled Welsh onion. Its fistular leaves areused in cookery.
CIBORIUM
A canopy usually standing free and supported on four columns,covering the high altar, or, very rarely, a secondary altar.
CICADA
Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterousinsects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill soundby pecular organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of apair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A notedAmerican species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen yearlocust. Another common species is the dogday cicada.
CICALA
A cicada. See Cicada. "At eve a dry cicala sung." Tennison.
CICATRICE
A cicatrix.
CICATRICIAL
Relating to, or having the character of, a cicatrix. Dunglison.
CICATRICLE
The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in theyolk of an egg at which development begins.
CICATRISIVE
Tending to promote the formation of a cicatrix; good forhealing of a wound.
CICATRIX
The pellicle which forms over a wound or breach of continuityand completes the process of healing in the latter, and whichsubsequently contracts and becomes white, forming the scar.
CICATRIZANT
A medicine or application that promotes the healing of a soreor wound, or the formation of a cicatrix.
CICATRIZATION
The process of forming a cicatrix, or the state of beingcicatrized.
CICATRIZE
To heal or induce the formation of a cicatrix in, as in woundedor ulcerated flesh. Wiseman.
CICATROSE
Full of scars. Craig.
CICELY
Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis,Osmorrhiza, etc.
CICERO
Pica type; -- so called by French printers.
CICERONE
One who shows strangers the curiosities of a place; a guide.Every glib and loquacious hireling who shows strangers about theirpicture galleries, palaces, and ruins, is termed by them [theItalians] a cicerone, or a Cicero. Trench.
CICERONIAN
Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.
CICERONIANISM
Imitation of, or resemblance to, the style or action Cicero; aCiceronian phrase or expression. "Great study in Ciceronianism, thechief abuse of Oxford." Sir P. Sidney.
CICH-PEA
The chick-pea. Holland.
CICHORACEOUS
Belonging to, or resembling, a suborder of composite plants ofwhich the chicory (Cichorium) is the type.
CICISBEISM
The state or conduct of a cicisbeo.
CICLATOUN
A costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages.[Obs.] [Written also checklaton, chekelatoun.]His robe was of ciclatoun, That coste many a Jane. Chaucer.
CICURATE
To tame. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CICURATION
The act of taming. [Obs.] Ray.
CICUTA
a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the waterhemlock or cowbane is best known.
CICUTOXIN
The active principle of the water hemlock (Cicuta) extracted asa poisonous gummy substance.
CIDER
The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, formaking vinegar, and for other purposes.
CIDERIST
A maker of cider. [Obs.] Mortimer.
CIDERKIN
A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace inwater.Ciderkin is made for common drinking, and supplies the place of smallbeer. Mortimer.
CIERGE
A wax candle used in religous rites.
CIGAR
A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking. Cigar fish (Zoรถl.),a fish (Decapterus punctatus), allied to the mackerel, found on thecoast of the Gulf of Mexico.
CIGARETTE
A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper forsmoking.
CILIA
The eyelashes.
CILIARY
Pertaining to the cilia, or eyelashes. Also applied to specialparts of the eye itself; as, the ciliary processes of the choroidcoat; the ciliary muscle, etc.
CILIATA
One of the orders of Infusoria, characterized by having cilia.In some species the cilia cover the body generally, in others theyform a band around the mouth.
CILICE
A kind of haircloth undergarment. Southey.
CILICIAN
Of or pertaining to Cilicia in Asia Minor.-- n.
CILICIOUS
Made, or consisting, of hair. [Obs.]A Cilicious or sackcloth habit. Sir T. Browne.
CILIOGRADE
Moving by means of cilia, or cilialike organs; as, theciliograde Medusรฆ.
CILIUM
See Cilia.
CILL
See Sill., n. a foundation.
CILLOSIS
A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid.
CIMA
A kind of molding. See Cyma.
CIMAR
See Simar.
CIMBAL
A kind of confectionery or cake. [Obs.] Nares.
CIMBIA
A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if tostrengthen it. [Written also cimia.]
CIMBRIAN
Of or pertaining to the Cimbri.-- n.
CIMBRIC
Pertaining to the Cimbri, an ancient tribe inhabiting NorthernGermany.-- n.
CIMELIARCH
A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; achurchwarden. [Obs.] Bailey.
CIMETER
See Scimiter.
CIMEX
A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the bestknown example. See Bedbug.
CIMIA
See Cimbia.
CIMISS
The bedbug. [Obs.] Wright.
CIMOLITE
A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color.
CINCHONA
A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru andadjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producinga medicinal bark of great value.
CINCHONACEOUS
Allied or pertaining to cinchona, or to the plants that produceit.
CINCHONIC
Belonging to, or obtained from, cinchona. Mayne.
CINCHONIDINE
One of the quinine group of alkaloids, found especially in redcinchona bark. It is a white crystalline substance, C19H22N2O, with abitter taste and qualities similar to, but weaker than, quinine; --sometimes called also cinchonidia.
CINCHONINE
One of the quinine group of alkaloids isomeric with andresembling cinchonidine; -- called also cinchonia.
CINCHONISM
A condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use ofquinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.
CINCHONIZE
To produce cinchonism in; to poison with quinine or withcinchona.
CINCINNATI EPOCH
An epoch at the close of the American lower Silurian system.The rocks are well developed near Cincinnati, Ohio. The groupincludes the Hudson River and Lorraine shales of New york.
CINCINNUS
A form of monochasium in which the lateral branches arisealternately on opposite sides of the false axis; -- called alsoscorpioid cyme. --Cin*cin"nal (#), a.
CINCTURE
The fillet, listel, or band next to the apophyge at theextremity of the shaft of a column.
CINCTURED
Having or wearing a cincture or gridle.
CINDERY
Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders.
CINEFACTION
Cineration; reduction to ashes. [Obs.]
CINEMATICS
See Kinematics.
CINEMATOGRAPH
A machine, combining magic lantern and kinetoscope features,for projecting on a screen a series of pictures, moved rapidly (25 to50 a second) and intermittently before an objective lens, andproducing by persistence of vision the illusion of continuous motion;a moving-picture machine; also, any of several other machines ordevices producing moving pictorial effects. Other common names forthe cinematograph are animatograph, biograph, bioscope, electrograph,electroscope, kinematograph, kinetoscope, veriscope, vitagraph,vitascope, zoรถgyroscope, zoรถpraxiscope, etc.
CINEMATOGRAPHER
One who exhibits moving pictures or who takes chronophotographsby the cinematograph. -- Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic (#), a. --Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
CINEMOGRAPH
An integrating anemometer.
CINERACEOUS
Like ashes; ash-colored; cinerous.
CINERARIA
A Linnรฆan genus of free-flowering composite plants, mostly fromSouth Africa. Several species are cultivated for ornament.
CINERARY
Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes. Cinerary urns, vesselsused by the ancients to preserve the ashes of the dead when burned.
CINERATION
The reducing of anything to ashes by combustion; cinefaction.
CINEREOUS
Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish.
CINERESCENT
Somewhat cinereous; of a color somewhat resembling that of woodashes.
CINERITIOUS
Like ashes; having the color of ashes, -- as the corticalsubstance of the brain.
CINERULENT
Full of ashes. [Obs.]
CINGALESE
A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitiveinhabitants; also (sing.),
CINGLE
A girth. [R.] See Surcingle.
CINNABAR
Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals,and also in red or brown amorphous masses. It is used in medicine.
CINNABARINE
Pertaining to, or resembling, cinnabar; consisting of cinnabar,or containing it; as, cinnabarine sand.
CINNAMENE
Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtainedfrom cinnamic acid). See Styrene.
CINNAMIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon. Cinnamic acid(Chem.), a white, crystalline, odorless substance.C6H5.C2H2C2H2.CO2H, formerly obtained from storax and oil ofcinnamon, now made from certain benzene derivatives in largequantities, and used for the artificial production of indigo.
CINNAMOMIC
See Cinnamic.
CINNAMONE
A yellow crystalline substance, (C6H5.C2H2)2CO, the ketone ofcinnamic acid.
CINNAMYL
The hypothetical radical, (C6H5.C2H2)2C, of cinnamic compounds.[Formerly written also cinnamule.]
CINNOLINE
A nitrogenous organic base, C8H6N2, analogous to quinoline,obtained from certain complex diazo compounds.
CINQUE
Five; the number five in dice or cards.
CINQUE PORTS
Five English ports, to which peculiar privileges were ancientlyaccorded; -- viz., Hastings, Romney, Hythe, Dover, and Sandwich;afterwards increased by the addition of Winchelsea, Rye, and someminor places. Baron of the Cinque Ports. See under Baron.
CINQUE-PACE
A lively dance (called also galliard), the steps of which wereregulated by the number five. [Obs.] Nares. Shak.
CINQUE-SPOTTED
Five-spotted. [R.] Shak.
CINQUECENTO
The sixteenth century, when applied to Italian art orliterature; as, the sculpture of the Cinquecento; Cinquecento style.
CINQUEFOIL
The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla;-- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leavesto the fingers of the hand.
CINTER
See Center.
CINURA
The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms;the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma.
CION
See Scion.The cion overruleth the stock; and the stock is but passive, andgiveth aliment, but no motion, to the graft. Bacon.
CIPHER
A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing,but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases itsvalue tenfold.
CIPHERER
One who ciphers.
CIPHERHOOD
Nothingness. [R.] Goodwin.
CIPOLIN
A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones.It consists of calcium carbonate, with zones and cloudings of talc.
CIPPUS
A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having aninscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as forindicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchralinscriptions, etc. Gwilt.
CIRC
An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus. [R.] T. Warton.
CIRCAR
A district, or part of a province. See Sircar. [India]
CIRCASSIAN
Of or pertaining to Circassia, in Asia.-- n.
CIRCEAN
Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol andPerseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victimsand then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious;as, a Circean draught.
CIRCINAL
Circinate.
CIRCINATE
Rolled together downward, the tip occupying the center; -- aterm used in reference to foliation or leafing, as in ferns. Gray.
CIRCLE
An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of whichconsists of an entire circle.
CIRCLED
Having the form of a circle; round. "Monthly changes in hercircled orb." Shak.
CIRCLER
A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wanderingaround as a stroller; an itinerant poet. Also, a name given to thecyclic poets. See under Cyclic, a. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
CIRCOCELE
See Cirsocele.
CIRCUIT
To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate. [Obs.] J.Philips.
CIRCUITEER
A circuiter. Pope.
CIRCUITER
One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge. [R.] R.Whitlock.
CIRCUITION
The act of going round; circumlocution. [R.]
CIRCUITOUS
Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, acircuitous road; a circuitous manner of accompalishing an end.-- Cir*cu"i*tous*ly, adv.-- Cir*cu"i*tous*ness, n.
CIRCUITY
A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundaboutway of proceeding.
CIRCULABLE
That may be circulated.
CIRCULARITY
The quality or state of being circular; a circular form.
CIRCULARLY
In a circular manner.
CIRCULARY
Circular; illogical. [Obs. & .] "Cross and circulary speeches."Hooker.
CIRCULATE
To cause to pass from place to place, or from person to person;to spread; as, to circulate a report; to circulate bills of credit.Circulating pump. See under Pump.
CIRCULATION
The movement of the blood in the blood-vascular system, bywhich it is brought into close relations with almost every livingelementary constituent. Also, the movement of the sap in the vesselsand tissues of plants.
CIRCULATIVE
Promoting circulation; circulating. [R.] Coleridge.
CIRCULATOR
One who, or that which, circulates.
CIRCULATORIOUS
Travelling from house to house or from town to town; itinerant.[Obs.] "Circulatorious jugglers." Barrow.
CIRCULATORY
Subserving the purposes of circulation; as, circulatory organs;of or pertaining to the organs of circulation; as, circulatorydiseases.
CIRCULET
A circlet. [Obs.] Spenser.
CIRCULINE
Proceeding in a circle; circular. [Obs.] "With motioncirculine". Dr. H. More.
CIRCUM-
A Latin preposition, used as a prefix in many English words,and signifying around or about.
CIRCUMAGITATE
To agitate on all sides. Jer. Taylor.
CIRCUMAMBAGE
A roundabout or indirect course; indirectness. [Obs.] S.Richardson.
CIRCUMAMBIENCY
The act of surrounding or encompassing. Sir T. Browne.
CIRCUMAMBIENT
Surrounding; inclosing or being on all sides; encompassing."The circumambient heaven." J. Armstrong.
CIRCUMAMBULATE
To walk round about.-- Cir`cum*am`bu*la"tion, n.
CIRCUMBENDIBUS
A roundabout or indirect way. [Jocular] Goldsmith.
CIRCUMCENTER
The center of a circle that circumscribes a triangle.
CIRCUMCISE
To purify spiritually.
CIRCUMCISER
One who performs circumcision. Milton.
CIRCUMCLUSION
Act of inclosing on all sides. [R.]
CIRCUMCURSATION
The act of running about; also, rambling language. [Obs.]Barrow.
CIRCUMDENUDATION
Denudation around or in the neighborhood of an object. Hills ofcircumdenudation, hills which have been produced by surface erosion;the elevations which have been left, after denudation of a mass ofhigh ground. Jukes.
CIRCUMDUCE
To declare elapsed, as the time allowed for introducingevidence. Sir W. Scott.
CIRCUMDUCT
To contravene; to nullify; as, to circumduct acts ofjudicature. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
CIRCUMDUCTION
The rotation of a limb round an imaginary axis, so as todescribe a concial surface.
CIRCUMESOPHAGAL
Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nervecommissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks.
CIRCUMESOPHAGEAL
Circumesophagal.
CIRCUMFER
To bear or carry round. [Obs.] Bacon.
CIRCUMFERENCE
To include in a circular space; to bound. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling;circuitous. Parkhurst.
CIRCUMFERENTIALLY
So as to surround or encircle.
CIRCUMFLANT
Blowing around. [Obs.] Evelyn.
CIRCUMFLECTION
See Circumflexion.
CIRCUMFLEX
To mark or pronounce with a circumflex. Walker.
CIRCUMFLUENCE
A flowing round on all sides; an inclosing with a fluid.
CIRCUMFULGENT
Shining around or about.
CIRCUMFUSE
To pour round; to spread round.His army circumfused on either wing. Milton.
CIRCUMFUSILE
Capable of being poured or spread round. "Circumfusile gold."Pope.
CIRCUMFUSION
The act of pouring or spreading round; the state of beingspread round. Swift.
CIRCUMGESTATION
The act or process of carrying about. [Obs.]Circumgestation of the eucharist to be adored. Jer. Taylor.
CIRCUMGYRATE
To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circularmotion. Ray.
CIRCUMGYRATION
The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round.A certain turbulent and irregular circumgyration. Holland.
CIRCUMGYRATORY
Moving in a circle; turning round. Hawthorne.
CIRCUMGYRE
To circumgyrate. [Obs.]
CIRCUMINCESSION
The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons ofthe Trinity.
CIRCUMJACENCE
Condition of being circumjacent, or of bordering ou every side.
CIRCUMJACENT
Lying round; borderong on every side. T. Fuller.
CIRCUMJOVIAL
One of the moons or satellites of the planet Jupiter. [Obs.]Derham.
CIRCUMLITTORAL
Adjointing the shore.
CIRCUMLOCUTION
The use of many words to express an idea that might beexpressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrese.the plain Billingagate way of calling names . . . would saveabundance of time lost by circumlocution. Swift.Circumlocution office, a term of riducle for a governmental officewhere business is delayed by passing through the hands of differentofficials.
CIRCUMLOCUTIONAL
Relating to, or consisting of, circumlocutions; periphrastic;circuitous.
CIRCUMLOCUTORY
Characterised by circumlocution; periphrastic. Shenstone.The officials set to work in regular circumlocutory order. Chambers'sJournal.
CIRCUMMERIDIAN
About, or near, the meridian.
CIRCUMMURE
To encompass with a wall. Shak.
CIRCUMNAVIGABLE
Capable of being sailed round. Ray.
CIRCUMNAVIGATE
To sail completely round.Having circumnavigated the whole earth. T. Fuller.
CIRCUMNAVIGATION
The act of circumnavigating, or sailing round. Arbuthnot.
CIRCUMNAVIGATOR
One who sails round. W. Guthrie.
CIRCUMNUTATE
To pass through the stages of circumnutation.
CIRCUMNUTATION
The successive bowing or bending in different directions of thegrowing tip of the stems of many plants, especially seen in climbingplants.
CIRCUMPOLAR
About the pole; -- applied to stars that revolve around thepole without setting; as, circumpolar stars.
CIRCUMPOSITION
The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state ofbeing so placed. Evelyn.
CIRCUMROTATE
To rotate about. [R.]
CIRCUMROTATION
The act of rolling or revolving round, as a wheel;circumvolution; the state of being whirled round. J. Gregory.
CIRCUMSCISSILE
Dehiscing or opening by a transverse fissure extending around(a capsule or pod). See Illust. of Pyxidium.
CIRCUMSCRIBABLE
Capable of being circumscribed.
CIRCUMSCRIBE
To draw a line around si as to touch at certain points withoutcutting. See Inscribe, 5.
CIRCUMSCRIBER
One who, or that which, circumscribes.
CIRCUMSCRIPTIBLE
Capable of being circumscribed or limited by bounds.
CIRCUMSCRIPTIVE
Circumscribing or tending to circumscribe; marcing the limitsor form of.
CIRCUMSCRIPTIVELY
In a limited manner.
CIRCUMSCRIPTLY
In a literal, limited, or narrow manner. [R.] Milton.
CIRCUMSPECT
Attentive to all the circustances of a case or the probableconsequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.
CIRCUMSPECTION
Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case;caution; watchfulness.With silent circumspection, unespied. Milton.
CIRCUMSPECTIVE
Looking around everi way; cautious; careful of consequences;watchful of danger. "Circumspective eyes." Pope.
CIRCUMSPECTIVELY
Circumspectly.
CIRCUMSPECTLY
In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily.
CIRCUMSPECTNESS
Vigilance un guarding against evil from every quarter; caution.[Travel] forces circumspectness on those abroad, who at home arenursed in security. Sir H. Wotton.
CIRCUMSTANCE
Condition in regard to worldly estate; state of property;situation; surroundings.When men are easy in their circumstances, they are naturally enemiesto innovations. Addison.Not a circumstance, of no account. [Colloq.] -- Under thecircumstances, taking all things into consideration.
CIRCUMSTANT
Standing or placed around; surrounding. [R.] "Circumstantbodies." Sir K. Digby.
CIRCUMSTANTIABLE
Capable of being circumstantiated. [Obs.] Jer Taylor.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL
Something incidental to the main subject, but of lessimportance; opposed to an essential; -- generally in the plural; as,the circumstantials of religion. Addison.
CIRCUMSTANTIALITY
The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial;particularity or minuteness of detail. "I will endeavor to describewith sufficient circumstantiality." De Quincey.
CIRCUMTERRANEOUS
Being or dwelling around the earth. "Circumterraneous demouns."H. Hallywell.
CIRCUMUNDULATE
To flow round, as waves. [R.]
CIRCUMVALLATE
To surround with a rampart or wall. Johnson.
CIRCUMVECTION
The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being socarried.
CIRCUMVENT
To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; todecieve; to delude; to get around.I circumvented whom I could not gain. Dryden.
CIRCUMVENTION
The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud;deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.A school in which he learns sly circumvention. Cowper.
CIRCUMVENTIVE
Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding.
CIRCUMVENTOR
One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning.
CIRCUMVEST
To cover round, as woth a garment; to invest. [Obs.]Circumvested with much prejudice. Sir H. Wotton.
CIRCUMVOLANT
Flying around.The circumvolant troubles of humanity. G. Macdonald.
CIRCUMVOLATION
The act of flying round. [R.]
CIRCUMVOLVE
To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circularmotion. Herrick.
CIRCUS
A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats ofwood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and dividedlengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track orcourse was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and publicshows.
CIRL BUNTING
A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus).
CIRRATE
Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ.
CIRRHIFEROUS
See Cirriferous.
CIRRHOSE
Same as Cirrose.
CIRRHOSIS
A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller insize and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimesapplied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in thefibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ.
CIRRHOTIC
Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as,cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.
CIRRHOUS
See Cirrose.
CIRRHUS
Same as Cirrus.
CIRRI
See Cirrus.
CIRRIFEROUS
Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.
CIRRIFORM
Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of bothanimals and plants.
CIRRIGEROUS
Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlikeappendages.
CIRRIGRADE
Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages.
CIRRIPED
One of the Cirripedia.
CIRRIPEDIA
An order of Crustacea including the barnacles. When adult, theyhave a calcareous shell composed of several pieces. From the openingof the shell the animal throws out a group of curved legs, lookinglike a delicate curl, whence the name of the group. See Anatifa.
CIRRO-CUMULUS
See under Cloud.
CIRRO-STRATUS
See under Cloud.
CIRROBRANCHIATA
A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendagesnear the mouth; the Scaphopoda.
CIRROSTOMI
The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirriaround the mouth; the Leptocardia. See Amphioxus.
CIRROUS
Cirrose.
CIRRUS
A tendril or clasper.
CIRSOCELE
The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.
CIRSOID
Varicose. Cirsoid aneurism, a disease of an artery in which itbecomes dilated and elongated, like a varicose vein.
CIRSOTOMY
Any operation for the removal of varices by incision.Dunglison.
CIS-
A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in Englishwords, and signifying on this side.
CISALPINE
On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is,on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.
CISATLANTIC
On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern orthe western side, according to the standpoint of the writer. Story.
CISCO
The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of theGreat Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, arelated species of Lake Michigan.
CISELURE
The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased.Weale.
CISLEITHAN
On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.
CISMONTANE
On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane.
CISPADANE
On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; thatis, on the south side.
CISSOID
A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving twocelebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a planeangle, and to construct two geometrical means between two givenstraight lines.
CIST
A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round oroval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover,and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings. (b) A cineraryurn. See Illustration in Appendix.
CISTED
Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.
CISTERCIAN
A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order,established in 1098 at Cรฎteaux, in France, by Robert, abbot ofMolesme. For two hundred years the Cistercians followed the rule ofSt. Benedict in all its rigor.-- a.
CISTIC
See Cystic.
CIT
A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- usedcontemptuously. "Insulted as a cit". JohnsonWhich past endurance sting the tender cit. Emerson.
CITABLE
Capable of being cited.
CITADEL
A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city andfortifications, and intended as a final point of defense. Syn. -Stronghold. See Fortress.
CITATION
A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove apoint in law.
CITATOR
One who cites. [R]
CITATORY
Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory.
CITE
To notify of a proceeding in court. Abbot
CITER
One who cites.
CITESS
A city woman [R.]
CITHARA
An ancient instrument resembling the harp.
CITHARISTIC
Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara.
CITHERN
See Cittern.
CITICISM
The manners of a cit or citizen.
CITIFIED
Aping, or having, the manners of a city.
CITIGRADAE
A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula andthe wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture theirprey by rapidly running and jumping. See Wolf spider.
CITIGRADE
Pertaining to the Citigradรฆ.-- n.
CITINER
One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen. [Obs.] Champan.
CITIZENESS
A female citizen. [R.]
CITIZENSHIP
The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen.
CITOLE
A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer. [Obs.]
CITRACONIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristicsof, citric and aconitic acids. Citraconic acid (Chem.), a white,crystalline, deliquescent substance, C3H4(CO2H)2, obtained bydistillation of citric acid. It is a compound of the ethylene series.
CITRANGE
A citrous fruit produced by a cross between the sweet orangeand the trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata). It is more acid andhas a more pronounced aroma than the orange; the tree is hardier.There are several varieties.
CITRATE
A salt of citric acid.
CITRIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as,citric acid. Citric acid (Chem.), an organic acid, C3H4OH.(CO2H)3,extracted from lemons, currants, gooseberies, etc., as a whitecrystalline substance, having a pleasant sour taste.
CITRINATION
The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon;esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stoneindicated by its assuming a deep yellow color. Thynne.
CITRINE
Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow.Citrine ointment (Med.), a yellowish mercurial ointment, theunquentum hydrargyri nitratis.
CITRON
A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantlyaromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce.
CITRUS
A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc.,originally natives of southern Asia.
CITTERN
An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire andplayed with a quill or plectrum. [Written also cithern.] Shak.
CITTERN-HEAD
Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a citternusually ended with a carved head. Marsion
CITY
Of or pertaining to a city. Shak. City council. See underCouncil.-- City court, The municipal court of a city. [U. S.] -- City ward,a watchman, or the collective watchmen, of a city. [Obs.] Fairfax.
CIVE
Same as Chive.
CIVET
The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- calledalso civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, andof a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots onthe body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. Thename is also applied to other species.
CIVIC
Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating toman as a member of society, or to civil affairs. Civic crown (Rom.Antiq.), a crown or garland of oak leaves and acorns, bestowed on asoldier who had saved the life of a citizen in battle.
CIVICISM
The principle of civil government.
CIVICS
The science of civil government.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
In the United States, a commission appointed by the President,consisting of three members, not more than two of whom may beadherents of the same party, which has the control, throughexaminations, of appointments and promotions in the classified civilservice. It was created by act of Jan, 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403).
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
The substitution of business principles and methods forpolitical methods in the conduct of the civil service. esp. the meritsystem instead of the spoils system in making appointments to office.
CIVILIST
A civilian. [R.] Warbur
CIVILIZABLE
Capable of being civilized.
CIVILIZATION
Rendering a criminal process civil. [Obs.]
CIVILIZED
Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts,learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated.Sale of conscience and duty in open market is not reconcilable withthe present state of civilized society. J. Quincy.
CIVILIZER
One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.
CIVILY
In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges;politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.
CIVISM
State of citizenship. [R.] Dyer.
CIZAR
To clip with scissors. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
CIZARS
Scissors. [Obs.] Swift.
CIZE
Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size.
CLABBER
Milk curdled so as to become thick.
CLACHAN
A small village containing a church. [Scot.] Sir W. ScottSitting at the clachon alehouse. R. L. Stevenson.
CLAD
To clothe. [Obs.] Holland.
CLADOCERA
An order of the Entomostraca.
CLADOPHYLL
A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliageof the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax(Myrsiphillum).
CLAGGY
Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.
CLAIK
See Clake.
CLAIM
To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to havea claim.We must know how the first ruler, from whom any one claims, came byhis authority. Locke.
CLAIMABLE
Capable of being claimed.
CLAIMANT
One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer.
CLAIMER
One who claims; a claimant.
CLAIMLESS
Having no claim.
CLAIR-OBSCUR
See Chiaroscuro.
CLAIRAUDIENCE
Act of hearing, or the ability to hear, sounds not normallyaudible; -- usually claimed as a special faculty of spiritualisticmediums, or the like.
CLAIRAUDIENT
Pertaining to, or characterized by, clairaudience.
CLAIRE
A small inclosed pond used for gathering and greening oysters.
CLAIRVOYANCE
A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state,of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normalcondition.
CLAIRVOYANT
Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in amesmeric state which are not present to the senses.
CLAM
A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that areedible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam(Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima),and other species of the United States. The name is said to have beengiven originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve.You shall scarce find any bay or shallow shore, or cove of sand,where you may not take many clampes, or lobsters, or both, at yourpleasure. Capt. John Smith (1616).Clams, or clamps, is a shellfish not much unlike a coclke; it liethunder the sand. Wood (1634).
CLAMANT
Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorousky. "Clamant children."Thomson.
CLAMATION
The act of crying out. Sir T. Browne.
CLAMATORES
A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles arebut little developed, so that they lack the power of singing.
CLAMATORIAL
Like or pertaining to the Clamatores.
CLAMBAKE
The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, betweenlayers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such anoccasion.
CLAMBER
To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also usedfiguratively.The narrow street that clambered toward the mill. Tennyson.
CLAMJAMPHRIE
Low, worthless people; the rabble. [Scot.] Jamieson.
CLAMMILY
In a clammy manner. "Oozing so clammily." Hood.
CLAMMINESS
State of being clammy or viscous.
CLAMMY
Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft andsticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a coldperspiration.
CLAMOR
To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain;to make importunate demands.The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak.
CLAMORER
One who clamors.
CLAMOROUS
Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling ordemanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud;turbulent. "My young ones were clamorous for a morning's excursion."Southey.-- Clam"or*ous*ly, adv.-- Clam"or*ous*ness, n.
CLAMP
A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used tosustuan the ends of beams.
CLAMPER
An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot orshoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper. Kane.
CLAN-NA-GAEL
A secret society of Irish Fenians founded in Philadelphia in1881.
CLANCULAR
Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed. [Obs.]Not close and clancular, but frank and open. Barrow.
CLANCULARLY
privately; secretly. [Obs.]
CLANDESTINE
Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usuallyfor an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, aclandestine marriage. Locke.
CLANDESTINITY
Privacy or secrecy. [R.]
CLANG
To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.The fierce Caretes . . . clanged their sounding arms. Prior.
CLANGOR
A sharp, harsh, ringing sound. Dryden.
CLANGOROUS
Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.
CLANGOUS
Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound. [Obs.]
CLANJAMFRIE
Same as Clamjamphrie. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
CLANK
A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallicor other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or lessresounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound thanclink.But not in chains to pine, His spirit withered with tyeur clank.Byron.
CLANKLESS
Without a clank. Byreon.
CLANNISH
Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan;disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by thetraditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan.-- Clan"nish*ly, adv.-- Clan"nish*ness, n.
CLANSHIP
A state of being united togheter as in a clan; an associationunder a chieftain.
CLANSMAN
One belonging to the same clan with another.
CLAP
The nether part of the beak of a hawk. Clap dish. See Clackdish, under Clack, n.-- Clap net, a net for taking birds, made to close or clap together.
CLAPBOARD
To cover with clapboards; as, to clapboard the sides of ahouse. [U. S.] Bartlett.
CLAPE
A bird; the flicker.
CLAPPER
A rabbit burrow. [Obs.]
CLAPS
Variant of Clasp [Obs.] Chaucer.
CLAPTRAP
Contrived for the purpose of making a show, or gainingapplause; deceptive; unreal.
CLAQUE
A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatricalexhibition.
CLAQUEUR
One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater.
CLARE
A nun of the order of St.Clare.
CLARE-OBSCURE
See Chiaroscuro.
CLARENCE
A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seatfor the driver.
CLARENDON
A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made inall sizes.
CLARET
The name firat given in England to the red wines of M
CLARIBELLA
A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ.
CLARICHORD
A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; --called also manichord and clavichord.
CLARIGATE
To declare war with certain ceremonies. [Obs.] Holland.
CLARINET
A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fullertone than the oboe, which has a double reed. It is the leadinginstrument in a military band.
CLARINO
A reed stop in an organ.
CLARION
A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.He sounds his imperial clarion along the whole line of battle. E.Everett.
CLARIONET
See Clarinet.
CLARISONUS
Having a clear sound. [Obs.] Ash.
CLARITUDE
Clearness; splendor. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
CLARITY
Clearness; brightness; splendor.Floods, in whose more than crystal clarity, Innumerable virgin gracesrow. Beaumont.
CLARO-OBSCURO
See Chiaroscuro.
CLARRE
Wine with a mixture of honey and species. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CLART
To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. [Prov. Eng.]Halliwell.
CLARTY
Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
CLARY
To make a loud or shrill noise. [Obs.] Golding.
CLASH
To strike noisily against or together.
CLASH GEAR
A change-speed gear in which the gears are changed by slidingendwise.
CLASHINGLY
With clashing.
CLASPERED
Furnished with tendrils.
CLASS
One of the sections into which a church or congregation isdivided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader. Classof a curve (Math.), the kind of a curve as expressed by the number oftangents that can be drawn from any point to the curve. A circle isof the second class.-- Class meeting (Methodist Church), a meeting of a class under thecharge of a class leader, for counsel and relegious instruction.
CLASS DAY
In American colleges and universities, a day of thecommencement season on which the senior class celebrates thecompletion of its course by exercises conducted by the members, suchas the reading of the class histories and poem, the delivery of theclass oration, the planting of the class ivy, etc.
CLASSIBLE
Capable of being classed.
CLASSICALIST
One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.Ruskin.
CLASSICISM
A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism. C. Kingsley.
CLASSICIST
One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics.
CLASSIFIABLE
Capable of being classified.
CLASSIFIC
Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification.
CLASSIFICATION
The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution intogroups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some commonrelations or affinities. Artificial classification. (Science) Seeunder Artifitial.
CLASSIFICATORY
Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification. "Aclassificatory system." Earle.
CLASSIFIER
One who classifies.
CLASSIFY
To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system;to arrnge in sets according to some method founded on commonproperties or characters.
CLASSIS
An ecclesiastical body or judicat
CLASSMATE
One who is in the same class with another, as at school orcollege.
CLASTIC
Fragmental; made up of brokas, sandstone is a clastic rock.
CLATCH
To daub or smear, as with lime; to make or finish in a slipshodway. [Scot.]
CLATHRATE
Shaped like a lattice; cancellate. Gray.
CLATTER
To make a rattling noise with.You clatter still your brazen kettle. Swift.
CLATTERER
One who clatters.
CLATTERINGLY
With clattering.
CLAUDE LORRAINE GLASS
A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as atoy for viewing the reflected landscape.
CLAUDENT
Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle.[R.] Jonson
CLAUDICANT
Limping. [R.]
CLAUDICATION
A halting or limping. [R.] Tatler.
CLAUSE
A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containinga subject and its predicate.
CLAUSTRAL
Cloistral. Ayliffe
CLAUSTRUM
A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemiphere of thebrain of man.-- Claus"tral, a.
CLAUSULAR
Consisting of, or having, clauses. Smart.
CLAUSURE
The act of shutting up or confining; confinement. [R.] Geddes.
CLAVE
imp. of Cleave. [Obs.]
CLAVECIN
The harpsichord.
CLAVEL
See Clevis.
CLAVELLATE
See Clavate.
CLAVELLATED
Said of potash, probably in reference to its having beenobtained from billets of wood by burning. [Obs.]
CLAVER
See Clover. Holland.
CLAVICHORD
A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte.See Clarichord.
CLAVICLE
The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, orshoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. Inman each clavicle is shaped like the letter
CLAVICORN
Having club-shaped antennรฆ. See Antennรฆ -- n.
CLAVICORNES
A group of beetles having club-shaped antennรฆ.
CLAVICULAR
Of or pertaining to the clavicle.
CLAVIER
The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.
CLAVIFORM
Club-shaped; clavate. Craig.
CLAVIGER
One who carries the keys of any place.
CLAVIGEROUS
Bearing a club or a key.
CLAVIS
A key; a glossary.
CLAVUS
A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn.
CLAVY
A mantelpiece.
CLAW
A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the baseof petals of the pink. Gray. Claw hammer, a hammer with one end ofthe metallic head cleft for use in extracting nails, etc.-- Claw hammer coat, a dress coat of the swallowtail pattern.[Slang] -- Claw sickness, foot rot, a disease affecting sheep.
CLAWBACK
A flatterer or sycophant. [Obs.] "Take heed of theseclawbacks." Latimer.
CLAWED
Furnished with claws. N. Grew.
CLAWLESS
Destitute of claws.
CLAY
Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles ofthe human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles.I also am formed out of the clay. Job xxxiii. 6.The earth is covered thick with other clay, Which her own clay shallcover. Byron.Bowlder clay. See under Bowlder.-- Brick clay, the common clay, containing some iron, and thereforeturning red when burned.-- Clay cold, cold as clay or earth; lifeless; inanimate.-- Clay ironstone, an ore of iron consisting of the oxide orcarbonate of iron mixed with clay or sand.-- Clay marl, a whitish, smooth, chalky clay.-- Clay mill, a mill for mixing and tempering clay; a pug mill.-- Clay pit, a pit where clay is dug.-- Clay slate (Min.), argillaceous schist; argillite.-- Fatty clays, clays having a greasy feel; they are chemicalcompounds of water, silica, and aluminia, as halloysite, bole, etc.-- Fire clay , a variety of clay, entirely free from lime, iron, oran alkali, and therefore infusible, and used for fire brick.-- Porcelain clay, a very pure variety, formed directly from thedecomposition of feldspar, and often called kaolin.-- Potter's clay, a tolerably pure kind, free from iron.
CLAY-BRAINED
Stupid. [Obs.] Shak.
CLAYES
Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers,to cover lodgments. [Obs.]
CLAYEY
Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay;like clay.
CLAYISH
Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it.
CLAYMORE
A large two-handed sword used formerly by the ScottishHighlanders.
CLAYTONIA
An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; --sometimes called spring beauty.
CLEAN
Free from ceremonial defilement.
CLEAN-CUT
See Clear-cut.
CLEAN-LIMBED
With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbedyoung fellow. Dickens.
CLEAN-TIMBERED
Well-propotioned; symmetrical. [Poetic] Shak.
CLEANER
One who, or that which, cleans.
CLEANLILY
In a cleanly manner.
CLEANLINESS
State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress.Cleanliness from head to heel. Swift.
CLEANSABLE
Capable of being cleansed. Sherwood.
CLEANSE
To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection,guilt, etc.; to clean.If we walk in the light . . . the blood of Jesus Christ his soncleanseth us from all sin. 1 John i. 7.Can'st thou not minister to a mind diseased, And with some sweetoblivious antidote Cleanse the suffed bosom of that perilous stuffWhich weighs upon the heart Shak.
CLEANSER
One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent. Arbuthnot.
CLEAR
Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; thedistance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the spacebetween walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear.
CLEAR-HEADED
Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent."He was laborious and clear-headed." Macaulay.-- Clear"-head`ed*ness, n.
CLEAR-SEEING
Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clearunderstanding.
CLEAR-SHINING
Shining brightly. Shak.
CLEAR-SIGHTED
Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason
CLEAR-SIGHTEDNESS
Acute discernment.
CLEARAGE
The act of reforming anything; clearance. [R.]
CLEARANCE
The distance by which one object clears another, as thedistance between the piston and cylinder head at the end of a strokein a steam engine, or the least distance between the point of acogwell tooth and the bottom of a space between teeth of a wheel withwhich it engages. Clearance space (Steam engine), the space inclosedin one end of the cylinder, between the valve or valves and thepiston, at the beginning of a stroke; waste room. It includes thespace caused by the piston's clearance and the space in ports,passageways, etc. Its volume is often expressed as a certainproportion of the volume swept by the piston in a single stroke.
CLEARCOLE
A priming of size mixed with whiting or white lead, used inhouse painting, etc.; also, a size upon which gold leaf is applied ingilding.
CLEAREDNESS
The quality of being cleared.Imputed by his friends to the clearedness, by his foes to thesearedness, of his conscience. T. Fuller.
CLEARER
A tool of which the hemp for lines and twines, used bysailmakers, is finished.
CLEARLY
In a clear manner.
CLEARNESS
The quality or state of being clear.
CLEARSTARCH
To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping withthe hands; as, to clearstarch muslin.
CLEARSTARCHER
One who clearstarches.
CLEARWING
A lepidop terous insect with partially transparent wings, ofthe family รgeriadรฆ, of which the currant and peach-tree borers areexamples.
CLEAT
A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to somethingin order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.
CLEAVABLE
Capable of cleaving or being divided.
CLEAVAGE
The quality possessed by many crystallized substances ofsplitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which thecohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smoothsurfaces; the direction of the dividing plane; a fragment obtained bycleaving, as of a diamond. See Parting.
CLEAVE
To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies;as, the ground cleaves by frost.The Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst. Zech. xiv. 4.
CLEAVELANDITE
A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure.
CLEAVER
One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher'sinstrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces.
CLEAVERS
A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set withhooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with;-- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc.
CLECHE
Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of thecolor of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the firstbearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. CompareVoided.
CLECHY
See Clรฉchรฉ.
CLEDGE
The upper stratum of fuller's earth.
CLEDGY
Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil.Halliwell.
CLEE
A claw. [Holland.
CLEEK
To seize; clutch; snatch; catch; pluck.
CLEF
A character used in musical notation to determine the positionand pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.
CLEFT
from Cleave.
CLEFT-FOOTED
Having a cloven foot.
CLEFTGRAFT
To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion.Mortimer.
CLEG
A small breeze or horsefly. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson.
CLEM
To starve; to famish. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
CLEMATIS
A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers,having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- calledalso virgin's bower.
CLEMENCE
Clemency. [Obs.] Spenser.
CLEMENT
Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate. Shak.-- Clem"ent*ly, adv.
CLEMENTINE
Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St.Clement of Rome and thespurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and hiscompilations of canon law.
CLENCH
See Clinch.
CLEPE
To call, or name. [Obs.]That other son was cleped Cambalo. Chaucer.
CLEPSINE
A genus of freshwater leeches, furnished with a proboscis. Theyfeed upon mollusks and worms.
CLEPSYDRA
A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by thegraduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture.See Illust. in Appendix.
CLEPTOMANIA
See Kleptomania.
CLERESTORY
Same as Clearstory.
CLERGEON
A chorister boy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CLERGIAL
Learned; erudite; clercial. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CLERGICAL
Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned.[Obs.] Milton.
CLERGYABLE
Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, aclergyable felony. Blackstone.
CLERGYMAN
An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to peach thegospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restrictedto a minister of the Established Church.
CLERIC
A clerk, a clergyman. [R.] Bp. Horsley.
CLERICALISM
An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order;undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism.
CLERICITY
The state of being a clergyman.
CLERK-ALE
A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk. [Eng.] T. Warton.
CLERKLESS
Unlearned. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse.
CLERKLIKE
Scholarlike. [Obs.] Shak.
CLERKLINESS
Scholarship. [Obs.]
CLERKLY
Of or pertaining to a clerk. Cranmer.
CLERKSHIP
State, quality, or business of a clerk.
CLEROMANCY
A divination by throwing dice or casting lots.
CLERONOMY
Inheritance; heritage.
CLERSTORY
See Clearstory.
CLEVERISH
Somewhat clever. [R.]
CLEVERLY
In a clever manner.Never was man so clever absurd. C. Smart.
CLEVERNESS
The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.
CLEVIS
A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the twoends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of aplow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.;-- called also clavel, clevy.
CLEW
To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets,clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to theyard. To clew down (Naut.), to force (a yard) down by hauling on theclew lines.-- To clew up (Naut.), to draw (a sail) up to the yard, as forfurling.
CLICHE
A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, orlettering, in relief. Clichรฉ casting, a mode of obtaining animpression from a die or woodcut, or the like, by striking itsuddenly upon metal which has been fused and is just becoming solid;also, the casting so obtained.
CLICK
To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises),as by gentle striking; to tick.The varnished clock that clicked behind the door. Goldsmith.
CLICK BEETLE
See Elater.
CLICKER
One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.
CLICKY
Resembling a click; abounding in clicks. "Their strange clickylanguage." The Century.
CLIDASTES
A genus of exinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus.See Illust. in Appendix.
CLIENCY
State of being a client.
CLIENT
A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man ofdistinction and influence, who was called his patron.
CLIENTAL
Of or pertaining to a client.A dependent and cliental relation. Burke.I sat down in the cliental chair. Dickens.
CLIENTED
Supplied with clients. [R.]The least cliented pettifiggers. R. Carew.
CLIENTELAGE
See Clientele, n., 2.
CLIENTSHIP
Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of apatron. Dryden.
CLIFF
A high, steep rock; a precipice. Cliff swallow (Zoรถl.), a NorthAmerican swallow (Petrochelidon lunifrons), which builds its nestagainst cliffs; the eaves swallow.
CLIFF LIMESTONE
A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west,presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed tobe of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partlyDevonian.
CLIFFY
Having cliffs; broken; craggy.
CLIFT
A cliff. [Obs.]That gainst the craggy clifts did loudly roar. Spenser.
CLIFTED
Broken; fissured.Climb the Andeclifted side. Grainger.
CLIMACTER
See Climacteric, n.
CLIMACTERIC
Relating to a climacteric; critical.
CLIMACTERICAL
See Climacteric. Evelyn.
CLIMACTIC
Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, aclimax, or ascending series.
CLIMATAL
Climatic. Dunglison.
CLIMATARCHIC
Presiding over, or regulating, climates.
CLIMATE
One of thirty regions or zones, parallel to the equator, intowhich the surface of the earth from the equator to the pole wasdivided, according to the successive increase of the length of themidsummer day.
CLIMATIC
Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, aclimate.
CLIMATICAL
Climatic.
CLIMATIZE
To acclimate or become acclimated.
CLIMATOGRAPHY
A description of climates.
CLIMATOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to climatology.
CLIMATOLOGIST
One versed in, or who studies, climatology.
CLIMATOLOGY
The science which treats of climates and investigates theirphenomena and causes. Brande & C.
CLIMATURE
A climate. [Obs.] Shak.
CLIMAX
A figure of which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are soarranged that each sicceeding one rise"Tribulation worketh patience, patience experience, and experiencehope" -- a happy climax. J. D. Forbes.
CLIMB
To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or byattaching itself by tendrills, rootlets, etc., to a support orupright surface.
CLIMBABLE
Capable of being climbed.
CLIMBER
One who, or that which, climbs:(a) (Bot.) A plant that climbs.(b) (Zoรถl.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.
CLIMBING
p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb. Climbing fern. See under Fern.-- Climbing perch. (Zoรถl.) See Anabas, and Labyrinthici.
CLIME
A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.Turn we to sutvey, Where rougher climes a nobler race display.Goldsmith.
CLINANTHIUM
The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- alsocalled clinium.
CLINCH
To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp oneanother.
CLINCHER-BUILT
See Clinker-built.
CLING
To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially bytwining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to itssupport; -- usually followed by to or together.And what hath life for thee That thou shouldst cling to it thus Mrs.Hemans.
CLINGSTONE
Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in somekinds of peaches.-- n.
CLINGY
Apt to cling; adhesive. [R.]
CLINIC
One who receives baptism on a sick bed. [Obs.] Hook.
CLINICALLY
In a clinical manner.
CLINIQUE
A clinic.
CLINIUM
See Clinanthium.
CLINK
To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as bystriking metallic or other sonorous bodies together.And let me the canakin clink. Shak.
CLINKANT
See Clnquant.
CLINKER-BUILT
Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the loweredge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it likeclapboards on a house. See Lapstreak.
CLINKSTONE
An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar instructure, and clinking under the hammer. See Phonolite.
CLINODIAGONAL
That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal whichmakes an oblique angle witch the vertical axis. See Crystallization.-- a.
CLINODOME
See under Dome.
CLINOGRAPHIC
Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which therays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane ofprojection.
CLINOID
Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner sideof the sphenoid bone.
CLINOMETER
An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr theslope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level. Dana.
CLINOMETRY
That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.
CLINOPINACOID
The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which isparallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal)axes.
CLINORHOMBIC
Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to arhombic base; monoclinic.
CLINOSTAT
An apparatus consisting of a slowly revolving disk, usuallyregulated by  clockwork, by means of wich the action of externalagents, as light and gravity, on growing plants may be regulated oreliminated.
CLINQUANT
Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery. [Obs.]Shak.
CLIO
The Muse who presided over history.
CLIONE
A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea),abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of theGreenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio.
CLIP
To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it.Straight flies as chek, and clips it down the wind. Dryden.
CLIPPER
A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.-- Clip"per-built` (, a.
CLIQUE
A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests orfor the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in abad sense.
CLIQUISH
Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques;exclusive in spirit.-- Cli"*quish*ness, n.
CLIQUISM
The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques.
CLITELLUS
A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adultearthworm, consisting of several united segments modified forreproductive purposes.
CLITORIS
A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to thepenis in the male.
CLIVERS
See Cleavers.
CLIVITY
Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient. [R.]
CLOACA
The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, andgenerative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and manyfishes.
CLOACAL
Of or pertaining to a cloaca.
CLOAK
To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal.Now glooming sadly, so to cloak her matter. Spenser.
CLOAKEDLY
In a concealed manner.
CLOAKROOM
A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks,overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.
CLOCHE
An apparatus used in controlling certain kinds of aรซroplanes,and consisting principally of a steering column mounted with auniversal joint at the base, which is bellshaped and has attached toit the cables for controlling the wing-warping devices, elevatorplanes, and the like.
CLOCK
To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking.
CLOCKLIKE
Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical.Their services are clocklike, to be set Blackward and vorward attheir lord's command. B. Jonson.
CLOCKWISE
Like the motion of the hands of a clock; -- said of thatdirection of a rotation about an axis, or about a point in a plane,which is ordinarily reckoned negative.
CLOCKWORK
The machinery of a clock, or machinary resembling that of aclock; machinery which produced regularity of movement.
CLOD
To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; toclot; as, clodded gore. See Clot.Clodded in lumps of clay. G. Fletcher.
CLODDISH
Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish. Hawthorne.-- Clod"dish*ness, n.
CLODDY
Consisting of clods; full of clods.
CLODHOPPER
A rude, rustic fellow.
CLODHOPPING
Boorish; rude. C. Brontรฉ.
CLODPATE
A blockhead; a dolt.
CLODPATED
Stupid; dull; doltish.
CLODPOLL
A stupid fellow; a dolt. [Written also clodpole.] Shak.
CLOFF
Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundredweight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in ageneral sense, of small deductions from the original weight. [Writtenalso clough.] McCulloch.
CLOGGINESS
The state of being clogged.
CLOGGING
Anything which clogs. Dr. H. More.
CLOGGY
Clogging, or having power to clog.
CLOISONNE
Inlaid between partitions: -- said of enamel when the lineswhich divide the different patches of fields are composed of a kindof metal wire secured to the ground; as distinguished from champlevรฉenamel, in which the ground is engraved or scooped out to receive theenamel. S. Wells Williams.
CLOISTER
To confine in, or as in, a cloister; to seclude from the world;to immure.None among them are throught worthy to be styled religious personsbut those that cloister themselves up in a monastery. Sharp.
CLOISTERAL
Cloistral. [Obs.] I. Walton.
CLOISTERER
One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse.
CLOISTRAL
Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse.[Written also cloisteral.]Best become a cloistral exercise. Daniel.
CLOISTRESS
A nun. [R.] Shak.
CLOKE
See Cloak. [Obs.]
CLOMP
See Clamp.
CLONG
imp. of Cling. [Obs.]
CLONIC
Having an irregular, convulsive motion. Dunglison. Clonicspasm. (Med.) See under Spasm.
CLONUS
A series of muscular contractions due to sudden stretching ofthe muscle, -- a sign of certain neuropathies.
CLOOM
To close with glutinous matter. [Obs.] Mortimer.
CLOOP
The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle."The cloop of a cork wrenched from a bottle." Thackeray.
CLOOTIE
A little hoof.
CLOSE
The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, eventhough it is not inclosed. Bouvier.
CLOSE-BANDED
Closely united.
CLOSE-BARRED
Firmly barred or closed.
CLOSE-BODIED
Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment. Ayliffe.
CLOSE-FIGHTS
Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of avessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy'sboarders; -- called also close quarters. [Obs.]
CLOSE-STOOL
A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick andinfirm. It is usually in the form of a box, with a seat and tightcover.
CLOSE-TONGUED
Closemouthed; silent. "Close-tongued treason." Shak.
CLOSEFISTED
Covetous; niggardly. Bp. Berkeley. "Closefisted contractors."Hawthorne.
CLOSEHANDED
Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted.-- Close"hand`ed*ness, n.
CLOSEHAULED
Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the directionfrom which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel.
CLOSEMOUTHED
Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative.
CLOSEN
To make close. [R.]
CLOSENESS
The state of being close.Half stifled by the closeness of the room. Swift.We rise not against the piercing judgment of Augustus, nor theextreme caution or closeness of Tiberius. Bacon.An affectation of closeness and covetousness. Addison.
CLOSER
The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size thanthe others, or a piece of brick finishing a course. Gwilt.
CLOSEREEFED
Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.
CLOSH
A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis. Crabb.
CLOSURE
A method of putting an end to debate and securing an immediatevote upon a measure before a legislative body. It is similar ineffect to the previous question. It was first introduced into theBritish House of Commons in 1882. The French word clรดture wasoriginally applied to this proceeding.
CLOT
A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulatedmass, as of blood; a coagulum. "Clots of pory gore." Addison.Doth bake the egg into clots as if it began to poach. Bacon.
CLOTE
The common burdock; the clotbur. [Obs.] Wyclif.
CLOTHE
To wear clothes. [Poetic]Care no more to clothe eat. Shak.
CLOTHESHORSE
A frame to hang clothes on.
CLOTHESLINE
A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry.
CLOTHESPIN
A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used forfastening clothes on a line.
CLOTHESPRESS
A receptacle for clothes.
CLOTHING
See Card clothing, under 3d Card.
CLOTHRED
Clottered. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CLOTPOLL
See Clodpoll. [Obs.] Shak.
CLOTTED
Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of aclot; sticky; slimy; foul. "The clotted glebe." J. Philips.When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soulgrows clotted by contagion. Milton.
CLOTTER
To concrete into lumps; to clot. [Obs.] "Clottered blood."Chapman.
CLOTTY
Full of clots, or clods. "Clotty matter." Harvey.
CLOTURE
See Closure, 5.
CLOTWEED
Cocklebur.
CLOUD
To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often usedwith up.Worthies, away! The scene begins to cloud. Shak.
CLOUD-BUILT
Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary.Cowper.So vanished my cloud-built palace. Goldsmith.
CLOUD-BURST
A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had beenprecipitated at once.
CLOUD-CAPPED
Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to theclouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.
CLOUD-COMPELLER
Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus. [Poetic.] Pope.
CLOUDAGE
Mass of clouds; cloudiness. [R.]A scudding cloudage of shapes. Coleridge.
CLOUDBERRY
A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamรฆmerous) growing in thenorthern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.
CLOUDILY
In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely. Dryden.
CLOUDINESS
The state of being cloudy.
CLOUDLAND
Dreamland.
CLOUDLESS
Without a cloud; clear; bright.A cloudless winter sky. Bankroft.-- Cloud"less*ly, adv.-- Cloud"less*ness, n.
CLOUDLET
A little cloud. R. Browning.Eve's first star through fleecy cloudlet peeping. Coleridge.
CLOUGH
An allowance in weighing. See Cloff.
CLOUTERLY
Clumsy; awkward. [Obs.]Rough-hewn, cloutery verses. E. Phillips.
CLOVE
imp. of Cleave. Cleft. Spenser. Clove hitch (Naut.) See underHitch.-- Clove hook (Naut.), an iron two-part hook, with jaws overlapping,used in bending chain sheets to the clews of sails; -- called alsoclip hook. Knight.
CLOVEN
from Cleave, v. t. To show the cloven foot or hoof, to reveal adevilish character, or betray an evil purpose, notwithstandingdisguises, -- Satan being represented dramatically and symbolicallyas having cloven hoofs.
CLOVER
A plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as thecommon red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare'sfoot, T. arvense. Clover weevil (Zoรถl.) a small weevil (Apionapricans), that destroys the seeds of clover.-- Clover worm (Zoรถl.), the larva of a small moth (Asopia costalis),often very destructive to clover hay.-- In clover, in very pleasant circumstances; fortunate. [Colloq.] -- Sweet clover. See Meliot.
CLOVERED
Covered with growing clover.Flocks thick nibbling through the clovered vale. Thomson.
CLOWE-GILOFRE
Spice clove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CLOWN
To act as a clown; -- with it [Obs.]Beclowns it properly indeed. B. Jonson.
CLOWNAGE
Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
CLOWNERY
Clownishness. L'Estrange.
CLOWNISH
Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown;ungainly; awkward. "Clownish hands." Spenser. "Clownish mimic."Prior.-- Clown"ish*ly, adv.
CLOWNISHNESS
The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior.That plainness which the alamode people call clownishness. Locke.
CLOYLESS
That does not cloy. Shak.
CLOYMENT
Satiety. [Obs.] Shak.
CLUB
Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoilor clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure.
CLUB-RUSH
A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species ofthe genus Scirpus. See Bulrush.
CLUB-SHAPED
Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennรฆ of certaininsects.
CLUBBABLE
Suitable for membership in a club; sociable. [Humorous.] G. W.Curtis.
CLUBBED
Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club. Skelton.
CLUBBIST
A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs. [R.] Burke.
CLUBFISTED
Having a large fist. Howell.
CLUBFOOT
A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usuallycongenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes.
CLUBFOOTED
Having a clubfoot.
CLUBHAND
A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such ahand.
CLUBHAUL
To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon asthe wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to thewind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the othertack. Clubhauling is attempted only in an exigency.
CLUBHOUSE
A house occupied by a club.
CLUBROOM
The apartment in which a club meets. Addison.
CLUCK
To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen. Ray.
CLUCKING
The noise or call of a brooding hen.
CLUE
A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same asClew.You have wound a goodly clue. Shak.This clue once found unravels all the rest. Pope.Serve as clues to guide us into further knowledge. Locke.
CLUM
Silence; hush. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CLUMBER
A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which,unlike other spaniels, hunts silently.
CLUMP
To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group.Blackmore.
CLUMPER
To form into clumps or masses. [Obs.]Vapors . . . clumpered in balls of clouds. Dr. H. More.
CLUMPS
A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enablingthe questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected bytwo persons who answer the questions; -- so called because theplayers take sides in two "clumps" or groups, the "clump" whichguesses the word winning the game.
CLUMPY
Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless. Leigh Hunt.
CLUMSILY
In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily.
CLUMSINESS
The quality of being clusy.The drudging part of life is chiefly owing to clumsiness andignorance. Collier.
CLUNCH
.
CLUNG
imp. & p. p. of Cling.
CLUNIAC
A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, foundedin 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France.-- Also used as a.
CLUNIACENSIAN
Cluniac.
CLUPEOID
Of or pertaining to the Herring family.
CLUSTER
To grow in clusters or assemble in groups; to gather or unitein a cluster or clusters.His sunny hair Cluster'd about his temples, like a god's. Tennyson.The princes of the country clustering together. Foxe.
CLUSTERINGLY
In clusters.
CLUSTERY
Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters. Johnson.
CLUTCH
The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; --often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall intothe clutches of an adversary.I must have . . . little care of myself, if I ever more come near theclutches of such a giant. Bp. Stillingfleet.
CLUTTER
To crowd together in disorder; to fill or cover with things indisorder; to throw into disorder; to disarrange; as, to clutter aroom.
CLYDESDALE
One of a breed of heavy draft horses originally fromClydesdale, Scotland. They are about sixteen hands high and usuallybrown or bay.
CLYDESDALE TERRIER
One of a breed of small silky-haired terriers related to, butsmaller than, the Skye terrier, having smaller and perfectly erectears.
CLYPEASTROID
Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a groupof flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side.
CLYPEATE
Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.
CLYPEIFORM
Shield-shaped; clypeate.
CLYPEUS
The frontal plate of the head of an insect.
CLYSMIAN
Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm;as, clysmian changes. Smart.
CLYSMIC
Washing; cleansing.
CLYSTER
A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of asyringe; an injection; an enema. Clyster pipe, a tube or pipe usedfor injections.
CLYTIE KNOT
In hair dressing, a loose, low coil at the back of the head,like the knot on the head of the bust of Clytie by G. F. Watts.
CNEMIAL
Pertaining to the shin bone. Cnemial crest, a crestlikeprominence on the proximal end of the tibia of birds and somereptiles.
CNIDA
One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; anematocyst; a lasso cell.
CNIDARIA
A comprehensive group equivalent to the true Coelenterata,i.e., exclusive of the sponges. They are so named from presence ofstinging cells (cnidae) in the tissues. See Coelenterata.
CNIDOBLAST
One of the cells which, in the Coelenterata, develop intocnidรฆ.
CNIDOCIL
The fine filiform process of a cnidoblast.
CO-
A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, inconjunction, joint. It is used before vowels and some consonants. SeeCom-.
CO-ALLY
A joint ally. Kent.
CO-ASSESSOR
A joint assessor.
CO-LEGATEE
A joint legatee.
CO-LESSEE
A partner in a lease taen.
CO-LESSOR
A partner in giving a lease.
CO-MATE
A companion. Shak.
CO-MEDDLE
To mix; to mingle, to temper. [Obs.] Shak.
CO-REGENT
A joint regent or ruler.
CO-RELATION
Corresponding relation.
CO-RELIGIONIST
One of the same religion with another.
CO-RESPONDENT
One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceedingjointly with another.
CO-SUFFERER
One who suffers with another. Wycherley.
CO-UNE
To combine or unite. [Obs.] "Co-uned together." Feltham.
CO-UNITE
To unite. [Obs.]
COACERVATE
Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped. [R.] Bacon.
COACERVATION
A heaping together. [R.] Bacon.
COACH
A cabin on the after part of the quarterdeck, usually occupiedby the captain. [Written also couch.] [Obs.]The commanders came on board and the council sat in the coach. Pepys.
COACHBOX
The seat of a coachman.
COACHDOG
One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; theDalmatian dog.
COACHEE
A coachman [Slang]
COACHER
one of the side at the bat posted near first or third base todirect a base runner.
COACHFELLOW
One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.),a comrade. Shak.
COACHMAN
A tropical fish of the Atlantic ocean (Dutes auriga); -- calledalso charioteer. The name refers to a long, lashlike spine of thedorsal fin.
COACHMANSHIP
Skill in driving a coach.
COACHWHIP SNAKE
A large, slender, harmless snake of the southern United States(Masticophis flagelliformis).
COACT
To force; to compel; to drive. [Obs.]The faith and service of Christ ought to be voluntary and notcoacted. Foxe.
COACTION
Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling. Sojth.
COACTIVELY
In a coactive manner.
COACTIVITY
Unity of action.
COADAPTATION
Mutual adaption. R. Owen.
COADAPTED
Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth. R. Owen.
COADJUMENT
Mutual help; coรถperation. [R.] Johnson.
COADJUST
To adjust by mutual adaptations. R. Owen.
COADJUSTMENT
Mutual adjustment.
COADJUTANT
Mutually assisting or operating; helping. J. Philips.
COADJUTING
Mutually assisting. [Obs.] Drayton.
COADJUTIVE
Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant. Feltham.
COADJUTOR
The assistant of a bishop or of a priest holding a benefice.
COADJUTORSHIP
The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance. Pope.
COADJUVANCY
Joint help; coรถperation. Sir T. Browne.
COADJUVANT
Coรถperating.
COADUNATE
United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.
COADUNATION
Union, as in one body or mass; unity. Jer. Taylor.The coadunation of all the civilized provinces. Coleridge.
COADUNITION
Coadunation. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
COADVENTURE
An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers.
COADVENTURER
A fellow adventurer.
COAFFOREST
To convert into, or add to, a forest. Howell.
COAG
See Coak, a kind of tenon.
COAGENCY
Agency in common; joint agency or agent. Coleridge.
COAGENT
An associate in an act; a coworker. Drayton.
COAGMENT
To join together. [Obs.] Glanvill.
COAGMENTATION
The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together;union. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
COAGULABILITY
The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated.Ure.
COAGULABLE
Capable of being coagulated. Boyle.
COAGULANT
That which produces coagulation.
COAGULATE
Coagulated. [Obs.] Shak.
COAGULATED
Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass;curdled. Coagulated proteid (Physiol. Chem.), one of a class ofbodies formed in the coagulation of a albuminous substance by heat,acids, or other agents.
COAGULATIVE
Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent.Boyle.
COAGULATOR
That which causes coagulation. Hixley.
COAGULATORY
Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatoryeffects. Boyle.
COAGULUM
The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation ofalbuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of bloot.
COAITA
The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genusAteles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
COAK
See Coke, n.
COAL
A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dugfrom beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting,like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and oftenaffording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter.
COAL TAR
A thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by the distillation ofbituminous coal in the manufacture of illuminating gas; used formaking printer's ink, black varnish, etc. It is a complex mixturefrom which many substances have been obtained, especiallyhydrocarbons of the benzene or aromatic series.
COAL WORKS
A place where coal is dug, including the machinery for raisingthe coal.
COAL-BLACK
As black as coal; jet black; very black. Dryden.
COAL-METER
A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter.Simmonds.
COAL-WHIPPER
One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship. [Eng.] Dickens.
COALERY
See Colliery.
COALESCENCE
The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the actof uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of beingunited; union; concretion.
COALESCENT
Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion ofsimilar parts; uniting.
COALGOOSE
The cormorant; -- so called from its black color.
COALITE
To unite or coalesce. [Obs.]Let them continue to coalite. Bolingbroke.
COALITIONER
A coalitionist.
COALITIONIST
One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocatescoalition.
COALMOUSE
A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit.
COALSACK
Any one of the spaces in the Milky Way which are very black,owing to the nearly complete absence of stars; esp., the large spacenear the Southern Cross sometimes called the Black Magellanic Cloud.
COALY
Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of thenature of coal.
COAMINGS
Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, orother opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp.the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from thetransverse head ledges. [Written also combings.]
COANNEX
To annex with something else.
COAPTATION
The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of abroken bone or dislocated joint.
COARCTATE
Pressed together; closely connected; -- applied to insectshaving the abdomen separated from the thorax only by a constriction.Coarctate pupa (Zoรถl.), a pupa closely covered by the old larvalskin, as in most Diptera.
COARCTATION
A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice.
COARSE-GRAINED
Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting inrefinement.
COARSELY
In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly;meanly.
COARSEN
To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character. [R.]Graham.
COARSENESS
The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; melegance;vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, orlanguage. "The coarseness of the sackcloth." Dr. H. More.Pardon the coarseness of the illustration. L'Estrange.A coarseness and vulgarity in all the proceedings. Burke.
COARTICULATION
The unoin or articulation of bones to form a joint.
COAST
To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice.[Local, U. S.]
COAST AND GEODETIC SURVEY
A bureau of the United States government charged with thetopographic and hydrographic survey of the coast and the execution ofbelts of primary triangulation and lines of precise leveling in theinterior. It now belongs to the Department of Commerce and Labor.
COASTAL
Of or pertaining to a cast.
COASTING
Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along acoast. Coasting trade, trade carried on by water between neighboringports of the same country, as distinguished fron foreign trade ortrade involving long voyages.-- Coasting vessel, a vessel employed in coasting; a coaster.
COATEE
A coat with short flaps.
COATI
A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to theraccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.
COATLESS
Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat.
COAX
To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, orfondling; to wheedle; to soothe.
COAXATION
The act of croaking. [R] Dr. H. More.
COAXER
One who coaxes.
COAXINGLY
In a coaxing manner; by coaxing.
COB
A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head.
COBAEA
A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America.C. scandens is a consrvatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers.
COBALT
A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, noteasily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co.
COBALTIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- saidespecially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as,cobaltic oxide. Luteo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive seriesof complex yellow compounds of ammonia and cobaltic salts.-- Roseo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series of complexred compounds of cobalt and ammonia. Modifications of these are thepurpureo-cobaltic compounds.
COBALTIFEROUS
Containing cobalt.
COBALTOUS
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- saidesp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence.Cobaltous chloride, a crystalline compound, CoCl2, of a pale rosecolor when hydrous, blue when dehydrated. Its solution is used for asympathetic ink, the writing being nearly colorless when dried in theair, owing to absorbed moisture, and becoming bright blue whenwarmed.
COBBING
Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n., 2. [Obs.] Withals (1608).
COBBLE
A fishing boat. See Coble.
COBBLESTONE
A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; asmall boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes.
COBELLIGERENT
Carryng on war in conjunction with another power.
COBIA
An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater;-- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish.
COBIRON
An andiron with a knob at the top. Bacon.
COBISHOP
A joint or coadjutant bishop. Ayliffe.
COBLE
A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudderextending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originallyused on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England.
COBNUT
A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.
COBOOSE
See Caboose.
COBOURG
A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.
COBRA
See Copra.
COBRA DE CAPELLO
The hooded snake (Naia tripudians), a highly venomous serpentinhabiting India.
COBSTONE
Cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.]
COBSWAN
A large swan. B. Jonson.
COBWALL
A wall made of clay mixed with straw.
COBWEB
The European spotted flycatcher. Cobweb lawn, a fine linen,mentioned in 1640 as being in pieces of fifteen yards. Beck. Draper'sDict.Such a proud piece of cobweb lawn. Beau. & Fl.Cobweb micrometer, a micrometer in which threads of cobwed aresubstituted for wires.
COBWEBBED
Abounding in cobwebs. "The cobwebbed cottage." Young.
COBWEBBY
Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.
COBWORK
Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the endsdovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marinework, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, acobwork dock or breakwater.
COCA
The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca).In med., called Erythroxylon.
COCAINE
A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves ofcoca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkablefor producing local insensibility to pain.
COCAINISM
A morbid condition produced by the habitual and excessive useof cocaine. -- Co*ca"in*ist, n.
COCAINIZE
To treat or anรฆsthetize with cocaine. -- Co*ca`in*i*za"tion(#), n.
COCCIFEROUS
Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferroustrees or plants.
COCCINELLA
A genus of small beetles of many species. They and their larvยฆeed on aphids or plant lice, and hence are of great benefit to man.Also called ladybirds and ladybugs.
COCCOBACTERIUM
One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism,generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter.
COCCOLITE
A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color.
COCCOLITH
One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable,often abundant in deep-sea mud.
COCCOSPHERE
A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up intococcoliths.
COCCOSTEUS
An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broadplates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.
COCCULUS INDICUS
The fruit or berry of the Anamirta Cocculus, a climbing plantof the East Indies. It is a poisonous narcotic and stimulant.
COCCUS
One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.
COCCYGEAL
Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebrรฆ.Coccygeal glands (Zoรถl.) , glands situated at the base of the tail ofbirds. They secrete the oil with which the plumage is dressed.
COCCYGEOUS
Coccygeal. [R.]
COCCYX
The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man andtailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebrรฆ more or lessconsolidated.
COCHIN FOWL
A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from CochinChina (Anam).
COCHINEAL
A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of theCoccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., andfound on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.
COCHINEAL FIG
A plant of Central and Southern Anerica, of the Cactus familly,extensively cultivated for the sake of the cochineal insect, whichlives on it.
COCHLEA
An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which iselongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals. See Ear.
COCHLEAR
Of or pertaining to the cochlea.
COCHLEARE
A spoonful. Dungleson.
COCHLEARIFORM
Spoon-shaped.
COCHLEARY
Same as Cochleate.
COCK
To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing. Addison.
COCK-A-HOOP
Boastful; defiant; exulting. Also used adverbially.
COCK-BRAINED
Giddy; rash. Milton.
COCK-PADDLE
See Lumpfish. [Scot.]
COCK-PADLE
See Lumpfish. [Scot.]
COCKADE
A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, andgenerally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military ornaval service, or party allegiance, and in England as a part of thelivery to indicate that the wearer is the servant of a military ornaval officer.Seduced by military liveries and cockades. Burke.
COCKADED
Wearing a cockade. Young.
COCKALEEKIE
A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned,and boiled with leeks and prunes.
COCKAMAROO
The Russian variety of bagatelle.
COCKATEEL
An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novรฆ-Hollandiรฆ); -- so calledfrom its note.
COCKATOO
A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinรฆ, havinga short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with acrest, which can be raised or depressed at will. There are severalgenera and many species; as the broad-crested (Plictolophus, orCacatua, cristatus), the sulphur-crested (P. galeritus), etc. Thepalm or great black cockatoo of Australia is Microglossus aterrimus.Cock"a*trice, n. Etym: [OF. cocatrice crocodile, F. cocatrix,cocatrice. The word is a corruption from the same source as E.crocodile, but was confused with cock the bird, F. coq, whence arosethe fable that the animal was produced from a cock's egg. SeeCrocodile.]
COCKBILL
To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, tocockbill the yards as a sign of mourning. To cockbill the anchor, tosuspend it from the cathead preparatory to letting it go. SeeAcockbill.
COCKBOAT
A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.
COCKCHAFER
A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and alliedgenera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.
COCKER
Th treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; topamper.Cocker thy child and he shall make thee afraid. Ecclesiasticus xxx.9.Poor folks cannot afford to cocker themselves up. J. Ingelow.
COCKER SPANIEL
One of a breed of small or medium-sized spaniels kept forhunting or retrieving game or for household pets. They usually weighfrom eighteen to twenty-eight pounds. They have the head of fairlength, with square muzzle, the ears long and set low, the legs shortor of medium length, and the coat fine and silky, wavy but not curly.Various colors are bred, as black, liver, red, black and white, blackand tan, etc.
COCKEREL
A young cock.
COCKET
Pert; saucy. [Obs.] Halliwell.
COCKEYE
A squinting eye. Forby.
COCKFIGHT
A match or contest of gamecocks.
COCKFIGHTING
The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight.
COCKHEAD
The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forminga pivot on which the stone is balanced.
COCKIELEEKIE
Same as Cockaleekie.
COCKING
Cockfighting. Ben Jonson.
COCKLE
A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium,especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied tosimilar shells of other genera.
COCKLEBUR
A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; oneof several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur.
COCKLED
Inclosed in a shell.The tender horns of cockled snails. Shak.
COCKLER
One who takes and sells cockles.
COCKLOFT
An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building.Dryden. Swift.
COCKMASTER
One who breeds gamecocks. L'Estrange.
COCKMATCH
A cockfight.
COCKNEY
Of or relating to, or like, cockneys.
COCKNEYDOM
The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.Thackeray.
COCKNEYFY
To form with the manners or character of a cockney. [Colloq.]
COCKNEYISH
Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys.
COCKNEYISM
The charasteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.
COCKROACH
An orthopterus insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.
COCKSCOMB
A plant (Celosia cristata), of many varieties, cultivated forits broad, fantastic spikes of brilliant flowers; -- sometimes calledgarden cockscomb. Also the Pedicularis, or lousewort, the RhinanthusCrista-galli, and the Onobrychis Crista-galli.
COCKSHEAD
(Bot.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having smallspiny-crested pods.
COCKSHUT
A kind of net to catch woodcock. [Obs.] Nares. Cockshut time orlight, evening twilight; nightfall; -- so called in allusion to thetome at which the cockshut used to be spread. [Obs.] Shak. B. Jonson.
COCKSPUR
A variety of Cratรฆgus, or hawthorn (C. Crus-galli), havinglong, straight thorns; -- called also Cockspur thorn.
COCKSWAIN
The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of aboat and its crew.
COCKTAIL
A horse, not of pure breed, but having only one eighth or onesixteenth impure blood in his veins. Darwin.
COCKUP
A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Latescalcarifer); -- also called begti.
COCKWEED
Peppergrass. Johnson.
COCKY
Pert. [Slang]
COCOA
A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, andused in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa orcocoa shells. Cocoa shells, the husks which separate from the cacaoseeds in preparing them for use.
COCOANUT
The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm. It yields anagreeable milky liquid and a white meat or albumen much used as foodand in making oil.
COCOONERY
A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and formingcocoons.
COCTIBLE
Capable of being cooked. Blount.
COCTILE
Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick.
COCUS WOOD
A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musicalinstruments.
COD
An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), Taken in immensenumbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It isespecially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. Itis salted and dried in large quantities.
COD LIVER
The liver of the common cod and allied species. Cod-liver oil,an oil obtained fron the liver of the codfish, and used extensivelyin medicine as a means of supplying the body with fat in cases ofmalnutrition.
CODA
A few measures added beyond the natural termination of acomposition.
CODDER
A gatherer of cods or peas. [Obs. or Prov.] Johnson.
CODDING
Lustful. [Obs.] Shak.
CODDYMODDY
A gull in the plumage of its first year.
CODEFENDANT
A joint defendant. Blackstone.
CODEINE
One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance,C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, butmuch feebler in its action; -- called also codeia.
CODETTA
A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming partof either; a short coda.
CODFISH
A kind of fish. Same as Cod.
CODICAL
Ralating to a codex, or a code.
CODICIL
A clause added to a will.
CODICILLARY
Of the nature of a codicil.
CODIFICATION
The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code.
CODIFIER
One who codifies.
CODIFY
To reduce to a code, as laws.
CODILLA
The coarse tow of flax and hemp. McElrath.
CODILLE
A term at omber, signifying that the game is won. Pope.
CODIST
A codifier; a maker of codes. [R.]
CODLE
See Coddle.
CODLING
A young cod; also, a hake.
CODPIECE
A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly madevery conspicuous. Shak. Fosbroke.
COECILIAN
See Cรฆcilian.
COEDUCATION
An educating together, as of persons of different sexes orraces. Co*ed`u*ca"tion*al (, a.
COEFFICACY
Joint efficacy.
COEFFICIENCY
Joint efficiency; coรถperation. Glanvill.
COEFFICIENT
Coรถperating; acting together to produce an effect.Co`ef*fi"cient*ly, adv.
COEHORN
A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles,and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.
COELACANTH
Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes.
COELECTRON
See Electron.
COELENTERATE
Belonging to the Coelentra.-- n.
COELIA
A cavity.
COELODONT
Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards.-- n.
COELOSPERMOUS
Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpelsincurved at the ends, as in coriander seed.
COELUM
See Body cavity, under Body.
COEMPTION
The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity. [R.]Bacon.
COENDOO
The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, or Sphingurus,prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.
COENESTHESIS
Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished fromthe special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separateorgans, as the eye and ear. It is supposed to depend on theganglionic system.
COENOBITE
See Cenobite.
COENOECIUM
The common tissue which unites the various zooids of abryozoan.
COENOGAMY
The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexualintercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes orcommunistic societies. [Written also cenogamy.]
COENOSARC
The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compoundhydroid. See Hydroidea.
COENURUS
The larval stage of a tapeworm (Tรฆnia coenurus) which formsbladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal diseaseknown as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.
COEQUAL
Being on an equality in rank or power.-- n.
COEQUALITY
The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power.
COEQUALLY
With coequality.
COERCIBLE
Capable of being coerced.-- Co*er"ci*ble*ness, n.
COERCION
The application to another of either physical or moral force.When the force is physical, and cannot be resisted, then the actproduced by it is a nullity, so far as concerns the party coerced.When the force is moral, then the act, though voidable, is imputableto the party doing it, unless he be so paralyzed by terror as to actconvulsively. At the same time coercion is not negatived by the factof submission under force. "Coactus volui" (I consented undercompulsion) is the condition of mind which, when there is volitionforced by coercion, annuls the result of such coercion. Wharton.
COERCITIVE
Coercive. "Coercitive power in laws." Jer. Taylor.
COERCIVE
Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain.-- Co*er"cive*ly, adv.-- Co*er"cive*ness, n.Coercive power can only influence us to outward practice. Bp.Warburton.Coercive or Coercitive force (Magnetism), the power or force which iniron or steel produces a slowness or difficulty in impartingmagnetism to it, and also interposes an obstacle to the return of abar to its natural state when active magnetism has ceased. It plainlydepends on the molecular constitution of the metal. Nichol.The power of resisting magnetization or demagnization is sometimescalled coercive force. S. Thompson.
COERULIGNONE
A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in thepurification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complexquinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret.
COESSENTIAL
Partaking of the same essence.-- Co`es*sen"tial*ly, adv.We bless and magnify that coessential Spirit, eternally proceedingfrom both [The Father and the Son]. Hooker.
COESSENTIALITY
Participation of the same essence. Johnson.
COESTABLISHMENT
Joint establishment. Bp. Watson.
COESTATE
Joint estate. Smolett.
COETANEAN
A personcoetaneous with another; a contemporary. [R.]A . . . coetanean of the late earl of SouthamptoAubrey.
COETANEOUS
Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time;contemporaneous.-- Co`e*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.And all [members of the body] are coetaneous. Bentley.
COETERNAL
Equally eternal.-- Co`e*ter"nal*ly, adv.Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven first born! Or of the Eternalcoeternal beam. Milton.
COETERNITY
Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being;equal eternity.
COEVAL
Of the same age; existing during the same period of time,especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.Silence! coeval with eternity! Pope.Oaks coeval spread a mournful shade. Cowper.
COEVOUS
Coeaval [Obs.] South.
COEXECUTOR
A joint executor.
COEXECUTRIX
A joint executrix.
COEXIST
To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with.Of substances no one has any clear idea, farther than of certainsimple ideas coexisting together. Locke.So much purity and integrity . . . coexisting with so much decay andso many infirmities. Warburton.
COEXISTENCE
Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporaryexistence.Without the help, or so much as the coexistence, of any condition.Jer. Taylor.
COEXISTENT
Existing at the same time with another.-- n.
COEXISTING
Coexistent. Locke.
COEXTEND
To extend through the same space or time with another; toextend to the same degree.According to which the least body may be coextended with thegreatest. Boyle.Has your English language one single word that is coextended throughall these significations Bentley.
COEXTENSION
The act of extending equally, or the state of being equallyextended.
COEXTENSIVE
Equally extensive; having as, consciousness and knowledge arecoextensive. Sir W. Hamilton.-- Co`ex*ten"sive*ly, adv.-- Co`ex*ten"sive*ness, n.
COFFEEHOUSE
A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffeeand other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation.The coffeehouse must not be dismissed with a cursory mention. Itmight indeed, at that time, have been not improperly called a mostimportant political institution . . . The coffeehouses were the chieforgans through which the public opinion of the metropolis venteditself . . . Every man of the upper or middle class went daily to hiscoffeehouse to learn the news and discuss it. Every coffeehouse hadone or more orators, to whose eloquence the crowd listened withadmiration, and who soon became what the journalists of our own timehave been called -- a fourth estate of the realm. Macaulay.
COFFEEMAN
One who keeps a coffeehouse. Addison.
COFFEEPOT
A covered pot im which coffee is prepared,
COFFEEROOM
A public room where coffee and other refreshments may beobtained.
COFFER
A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, orportico; a caisson.
COFFERDAM
A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, fromwhich the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) andpermit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc.
COFFERER
One who keeps treasures in a coffer. [R.]
COFFERWORK
Rubblework faced with stone. Knight.
COFFIN
The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet,in which is the coffin bone. Coffin bone, the foot bone of the horseand allied animals, inclosed within the hoof, and corresponding tothe third phalanx of the middle finger, or toe, of most mammals.-- Coffin joint, the joint next above the coffin bone.
COFFINLESS
Having no coffin.
COFFLE
A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.
COG
To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; tocajole.For guineas in other men's breeches, Your gamesters will palm andwill cog. Swift.
COGENCY
The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction;conclusiveness; force.An antecedent argument of extreme cogency. J. H. Newman.
COGENIAL
Congenial. [Obs.]
COGENTLY
In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincigly; conclusively. Locke.
COGGER
A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.
COGGERY
Trick; deception. Bp. Watson.
COGGLE
A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
COGITABILITY
The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness.
COGITABLE
Capable of being brought before the mind as a throught or idea;conceivable; thinkable.Creation is cogitable by us only as a putting forth of divine power.Sir W. Hamilton.
COGITABUND
Full of thought; thoughtful. [R.] Leigh Hunt.
COGITATE
To engage in continuous thought; to think.He that calleth a thing into his mind, whether by impression orrecordation, cogitateth and considereth, and he that employeth thefaculty of his fancy also cogitateth. Bacon.
COGITATION
The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation. "Fixedin cogitation deep." Milton.
COGMAN
A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth. [Obs.] Wright.
COGNAC
A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac.
COGNATE
One who is related to another on the female side. Wharton.
COGNATENESS
The state of being cognate.
COGNATI
Relatives by the mother's side. Wharton.
COGNATION
That tie of consanguinity which exists between personsdescended from the same mother; -- used in distinction from agnation.
COGNATUS
A person cinnected through cognation.
COGNITIVE
Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitivepower. South.
COGNIZABLY
In a cognizable manner.
COGNIZANT
Having cognizance or knowledge. (of).
COGNIZE
To know or perceive; to recognize.The reasoning faculty can deal with no facts until they are cognizedby it. H. Spencer.
COGNIZEE
One to whom a fine of land was ackowledged. Blackstone.
COGNIZOR
One who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in afine; the defendant. Blackstone.
COGNOMEN
A surname.
COGNOMINAL
Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname.
COGNOMINATION
A cognomen or surname. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
COGNOSCENCE
Cognizance. [R.] Dr. H. More.
COGNOSCENTE
A conoisseur. Mason.
COGNOSCIBILITY
The quality of being cognoscible. Cudworth.
COGNOSCITIVE
Having the power of knowing. [Obs.] "An innate cognoscitivepower." Cudworth.
COGNOVIT
An instrument in writting whereby a defendant in an actionacknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just. Mozley & W.
COGON
A tall, coarse grass (Imperata arundinacea) of the PhilippineIslands and adjacent countries, used for thatching.
COGUARDIAN
A joint guardian.
COGUE
A small wooden vessel; a pail. [Scot.] Jamieson.
COGWARE
A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classesin the sixteenth century. Halliwell.
COGWHEEL
A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. ofGearing.
COHABITANT
One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country.No small number of the Danes became peaceable cohabitants with theSaxons in England. Sir W. Raleigh.
COHABITATION
The living together of a man and woman in supposed sexualrelationship.That the duty of cohabitation is released by the cruelty of one ofthe parties is admitted. Lord Stowell.
COHABITER
A cohabitant. Hobbes.
COHEIR
A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitledto an inheritance.
COHEIRESS
A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a jointheiress.
COHEIRSHIP
The state of being a coheir.
COHERALD
A joint herald.
COHERENTLY
In a coherent manner.
COHERER
Any device in which an imperfectly conducting contact betweenpieces of metal or other conductors loosely resting against eachother is materially improved in conductivity by the influence ofHertzian waves; -- so called by Sir O. J. Lodge in 1894 on theassumption that the impact of the electic waves caused the looselyconnected parts to cohere, or weld together, a condition easilydestroyed by tapping. A common form of coherer as used in wirelesstelegraphy consists of a tube containing filings (usually a pinch ofnickel and silver filings in equal parts) between terminal wires orplugs (called conductor plugs).
COHESIBILITY
The state of being cohesible. Good.
COHESIBLE
Capable of cohesion.
COHESION
That from of attraction by which the particles of a body areunited throughout the mass, whether like or unlike; -- distinguishedfrom adhesion, which unites bodies by their adjacent surfaces.Solids and fluids differ in the degree of cohesion, which, beingincreased, turns a fluid into a solid. Arbuthnot.
COHIBIT
To restrain. [Obs.] Bailey.
COHIBITION
Hindrance; restraint. [Obs.]
COHOBATE
To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon thematter remaining in the vessel. Arbuthnot.
COHOBATION
The process of cohobating. Grew.
COHORN
See Coehorn.
COHORT
A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part ofa legion.
COHOSH
A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whoseroostock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The nameis sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to twospecies of Actรฆa, plants of the Crowfoot family.
COIF
A cap. Specifically: (a) A close-fitting cap covering the sidesof the head, like a small hood without a cape. (b) An officialheaddress, such as that worn by certain judges in England. [Writtingalso quoif.]From point and saucy ermine down To the plain coif and russet gown.H. Brocke.The judges, . . . althout they are not of the first magnitude, norneed be of the degree of the coif, yet are they considerable. Bacon.
COIFED
Wearing a coif.
COIFFEUR
A hairdresser.
COIFFURE
A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair. Addison.
COIGN
A var. spelling of Coin, Quoin, a corner, wedge; -- chieflyused in the phrase coign of vantage, a position advantageous foraction or observation.
COIGNE
A quoin.See you yound coigne of the Capitol yon corner stone Shak.
COIL
To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; towind; -- often with about or around.You can see his flery serpents . . . Coiting, playing in the water.Longfellow.
COILON
A testicle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COIN
To manufacture counterfeit money.They cannot touch me for coining. Shak.
COINCIDENCY
Coincidence. [R.]
COINCIDENT
Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous;concurrent; -- followed by with.Christianity teaches nothing but what is perfectly suitable to, andcoincident with, the ruling principles of a virtuous and well-inclined man. South.
COINCIDENTAL
Coincident.
COINCIDENTLY
With coincidence.
COINCIDER
One who coincides with another in an opinion.
COINDICATION
One of several signs or sumptoms indicating the same fact; as,a coindication of disease.
COINHABITANT
One who dwells with another, or with others. "Coinhabitants ofthe same element." Dr. H. More.
COINHERE
To inhere or exist together, as in one substance. Sir W.Hamilton.
COINHERITANCE
Joint inheritance.
COINHERITOR
A coheir.
COINITIAL
Having a common beginning.
COINQUINATE
Topollute. [Obs.] Skelton.
COINQUINATION
Defilement. [Obs.]
COINSTANTANEOUS
Happening at the same instant. C. Darwin.
COINSURANCE
Insurance jointly with another or others; specif., that systemof fire insurance in which the insurer is treated as insuring himselfto the extent of that part of the risk not covered by his policy, sothat any loss is apportioned between him and the insurance company onthe principle of average, as in marine insurance or between otherinsurers.
COINTENSE
Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and12, and 8 and 16, are cointense. H. Spencer.
COINTENSION
The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied torelations; as, 3 : 6 and 6 : 12 are relations of cointension.Cointension . . . is chosen indicate the equality of relations inrespect of the contrast between their terms. H. Spencer.
COIT
A quoit. [Obs.] Carew.
COITION
A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation. Grew.
COJOIN
To join; to conjoin. [R.] Shak.
COJUROR
One who swears to another's credibility. W. Wotton.
COKE
Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, orother volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or bydistillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where [Written alsocoak.] Gas coke, the coke formed in gas retorts, as distinguishedfrom that made in ovens.
COKENAY
A cockney. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COKERNUT
The cocoanut.
COKES
A simpleton; a gull; a dupe. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
COKEWOLD
Cuckold. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COL
A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains;the pass over such a ridge.
COLA
L. pl. of Colon.
COLABORER
One who labors with another; an associate in labor.
COLANDER
A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes forstraining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer ofwickerwork, perfprated metal, or the like.
COLATION
The act or process of straining or filtering. [R.]
COLATITUDE
The complement of the latitude, or the difference between anylatitude and ninety degrees.
COLATURE
The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer. [R.]
COLBERTINE
A kind of lace. [Obs.]Pinners edged with colbertine. Swift.Difference rose between Mechlin, the queen of lace, and colbertine.Young.
COLCHICINE
A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from theColchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowishamorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called alsocolchicia.
COLCHICUM
A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe,including the meadow saffron.
COLCOTHAR
Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used inpolishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis.
COLD
Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8. Cold abscess. See underAbscess.-- Cold blast See under Blast, n., 2. Cold blood. See under Blood,n., 8.-- Cold chill, an ague fit. Wright.-- Cold chisel, a chisel of peculiar strength and hardness, forcutting cold metal. Weale.-- Cold cream. See under Cream.-- Cold slaw. See Cole slaw.-- In cold blood, without excitement or passion; deliberately.He was slain in cold blood after thefight was over. Sir W. Scott.To give one the cold shoulder, to treat one with neglect.
COLD WAVE
In the terminology of the United States Weather Bureau, anunusual fall in temperature, to or below the freezing point,exceeding 16ยบ in twenty-four hours or 20ยบ in thirty-six hours,independent of the diurnal range.
COLD-HEARTED
Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent.-- Cold"-heart`ed*ness, n.
COLD-SHORT
Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.
COLD-SHUT
Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of aforging or casting.-- n.
COLDFINCH
A British wagtail.
COLDISH
Somewhat cold; cool; chilly.
COLDLY
In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; withindifference; calmly.Withdraw unto some private place, And reason coldly of yourgrievances. Shak.
COLDNESS
The state or quality of being cold.
COLE
A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B.oleracea called rape and coleseed.
COLEGOOSE
See Coalgoose.
COLEMANITE
A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless orwhite crystals, also massive, in Southern California.
COLEMOUSE
See Coletit.
COLEOPTER
One of the Coleoptera.
COLEOPTERA
An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra)hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair,which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others whennot in use. The mouth parts form two pairs of jaws (mandibles andmaxillรฆ) adapted for chewing. Most of the Coleoptera are known asbeetles and weevils.
COLEOPTERAN
One of the order of Coleoptera.
COLEOPTERIST
One versed in the study of the Coleoptera.
COLEORHIZA
A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle.Gray.
COLEPERCH
A kind of small black perch.
COLERA
Bile; choler. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COLERIDGIAN
Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry ormetaphysics.
COLESEED
The common rape or cole.
COLESLAW
A salad made of sliced cabbage.
COLESTAFF
See Colstaff.
COLEUS
A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated forits bright-colored or variegated leaves.
COLFOX
A crafty fox. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COLIC
A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm,obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera. Hepaticcolic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a gallstone fromthe liver or gall bladder through the bile duct.-- Intestinal colic, or Ordinary colic, pain due to distention ofthe intestines by gas.-- Lead colic, Painter's colic, a violent form of intestinal colic,associated with obstinate constipation, produced by chronic leadpoisoning.-- Renal colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of acalculus from the kidney through the ureter.-- Wind colic. See Intestinal colic, above.
COLICAL
Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic. Swift.
COLICKY
Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.
COLICROOT
A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leavesall radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike(Aletris farinosa and A. aurea). Called sometimes star grass,blackroot, blazing star, and unicorn root.
COLIN
The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied toother related species. See Bobwhite.
COLISEUM
The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in theworld. [Written also Colosseum.]
COLITIS
An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucousmembrane; colonitis.
COLL
To embrace. [Obs.] "They coll and kiss him." Latimer.
COLLABORATEUR
See Collaborator.
COLLABORATION
The act ofworking together; united labor.
COLLABORATOR
An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientificlabor.
COLLAGEN
The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendonsor sinews and of bone. On being boiled in water it becomes gelatin orglue.
COLLAGENOUS
Containing or resembling collagen.
COLLAPSE
Extreme depression or sudden failing o
COLLAPSION
Collapse. [R.] Johnson.
COLLAR
The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant andits stem. Gray.
COLLAR BONE
The clavicle.
COLLARDS
Young cabbage, used as "greens"; esp. a kind cultivated forthat purpose; colewort. [Colloq. Souther U. S.]
COLLARED
Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearingwhen a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.
COLLATABLE
Capable of being collated. Coleridge.
COLLATE
To present and institute in a benefice, when the personpresenting is both the patron and the ordinary; -- followed by to.
COLLATERAL
Descending from the same stock or ancestor, but not in the sameline or branch or one from the other; -- opposed to lineal.
COLLATERALNESS
The state of being collateral.
COLLATION
The gathering and examination of sheets preparatory to binding.
COLLATIONER
One who examines the sheets of a book that has just beenprinted, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.[Eng.]
COLLATITIOUS
Brought together; contributed; done by contributions. [Obs.]Bailey.
COLLATIVE
Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which thebishop and the patron are the same person.
COLLATOR
One who collates to a benefice.
COLLAUD
To join in praising. [Obs.] Howell.
COLLEAGUE
A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical officeor employment. It is never used of partners in trade or manufactures.
COLLEAGUESHIP
Partnership in office. Milton.
COLLECT
A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day,occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy.The noble poem on the massacres of Piedmont is strictly a collect inverse. Macaulay.
COLLECTANEA
Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes ofinstruction; miscellany; anthology.
COLLECTEDLY
Composedly; coolly.
COLLECTEDNESS
A collected state of the mind; self-possession.
COLLECTIBLE
Capable of being collected.
COLLECTIONAL
Of or pertaining to collecting.The first twenty-five [years] must have been wasted for collectionalpurposes. H. A. Merewether.
COLLECTIVE
Expressing a collection or aggregate of individuals, by asingular form; as, a collective name or noun, like assembly, army,juri, etc.
COLLECTIVELY
In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate;unitedly.
COLLECTIVENESS
A state of union; mass.
COLLECTIVISM
The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by societycollectively or as a whole; communism. W. G. Summer.
COLLECTIVIST
An advocate of collectivism.-- a.
COLLECTOR
An officer appointed and commissioned to collect and receivecustoms, duties, taxes, or toll.A great part of this is now embezzled . . . by collectors, and otherofficers. Sir W. Temple.
COLLECTORATE
The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship.
COLLECTORSHIP
The office of a collector of customs or of taxes.
COLLEEN
A girl; a maiden. [Anglo-Irish]
COLLEGATARY
A joint legatee.
COLLEGIAL
Collegiate. [R.]
COLLEGIAN
A member of a college, particularly of a literary institutionso called; a student in a college.
COLLEGIATE
Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; acollegiate society. Johnson. Collegiate church. (a) A church which,although not a bishop's seat, resembles a cathedral in having acollege, or chapter of canons (and, in the Church of England, adean), as Westminster Abbey. (b) An association of churches,possessing common revenues and administered under the joint pastorateof several ministers; as, the Reformed (Dutch) Collegiate Church ofNew York.
COLLEMBOLA
The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and alliedforms.
COLLENCHYMA
A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the anglesand (usually) elongated.
COLLET
A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as,the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem,for holding a drill.
COLLETERIAL
Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects. R. Owen.
COLLETERIUM
An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite theejected ova.
COLLETIC
Agglutinant.-- n.
COLLEY
See Collie.
COLLIDE
To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision;to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided.Across this space the attraction urges them. They collide, theyrecoil, they oscillate. Tyndall.No longer rocking and swaying, but clashing and colliding. Carlyle.
COLLIDINE
One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oilyliquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from boneoil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids.
COLLIE
The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-hairedand smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayedespecially in caring for flocks. [Written also colly, colley.]
COLLIED
Darkened. See Colly, v. t.
COLLIFLOWER
See Cauliflower.
COLLIGATE
To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a singleproposition.He had discovered and colligated a multitude of the most wonderful .. . phenomena. Tundall.
COLLIGATION
That process by which a number of isolated facts are broughtunder one conception, or summed up in a general proposition, as whenKepler discovered that the various observed positions of the planetMars were points in an ellipse. "The colligation of facts." Whewell.Colligation is not always induction, but induction is alwayscolligation. J. S. Mill.
COLLIMATE
To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bringinto the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to renderparallel, as rays of light.
COLLIMATION
The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of thesights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into itsproper position relative to the other parts of the instrument. Errorof collimation, the deviation of the line collimation of anastronomical instrument from the position it ought to have withrespect to the axis of motion of the instrument.-- Line of collimation, the axial line of the telescope of anastronomical or geodetic instrument, or the line which passes throughthe optical center of the object glass and the intersection of thecross wires at its focus.
COLLIMATOR
A telescope arranged and used to determine errors ofcollimation, both vertical and horizontal. Nichol.
COLLIN
A very pure form of gelatin.
COLLINE
A small hill or mount. [Obs.]And watered park, full of fine collines and ponds. Evelyn.
COLLINEATION
The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixedobject. [R.] Johnson.
COLLING
An embrace; dalliance. [Obs.] Halliwell.
COLLINGLY
With embraces. [Obs.] Gascoigne.
COLLINGUAL
Having, or pertaining to, the same language.
COLLIQUABLE
Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid. [Obs.] Harvey.
COLLIQUAMENT
The first rudiments of an embryo in generation. Dr. H. More.
COLLIQUATE
To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; tomelt. [Obs.]The ore of it is colliquated by the violence of the fire. Boyle.[Ice] will colliquate in water or warm oil. Sir T. Browne.
COLLIQUATION
A processive wasting or melting away of the solid parts of theanimal system with copious excretions of liquids by one or morepassages. [Obs.]
COLLIQUATIVE
Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, collequativesweats.
COLLIQUEFACTION
A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into onemass by fusion.The incorporation of metals by simple colliquefaction. Bacon.
COLLISH
A tool to polish the edge of a sole. Knight.
COLLISIVE
Colliding; clashing. [Obs.]
COLLITIGANT
Disputing or wrangling. [Obs.] -- n.
COLLOCATE
Set; placed. [Obs.] Bacon.
COLLOCATION
The act of placing; the state of being placed with somethingelse; disposition in place; arrangement.The choice and collocation of words. Sir W. Jones.
COLLOCUTION
A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutualdiscourse. Bailey.
COLLOCUTOR
One of the speakers in a dialogue. Derham.
COLLODION
A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ethercontaining a varying proportion of alcohol. It is strongly adhesive,and is used by surgeons as a containing for wounds; but its chiefapplication is as a vehicle for the sensitive film in photography.Collodion process (Photog.), a process in which a film of sensitizedcollodion is used in preparing the plate for taking a picture.-- Styptic collodion, collodion containing an astringent, as tannin.
COLLODIONIZE
To prepare or treat with collodion. R. Hunt.
COLLODIOTYPE
A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype orambrotype.
COLLODIUM
See Collodion.
COLLOGUE
To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse,especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief. [Archaic orColloq.]Pray go in; and, sister, salve the matter, Collogue with her again,and all shall be well. Greene.He had been colloguing with my wife. Thackeray.
COLLOID
Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylikeappearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors.
COLLOIDAL
Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids.
COLLOIDALITY
The state or quality of being colloidal.
COLLOPED
Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops.With that red, gaunt, and colloped neck astrain. R. Browning.
COLLOQUIAL
Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common andfamiliar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal;as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style.-- Col*lo"qui*al*ly, adv.His [Johnson's] colloquial talents were, indeed, of the highestorder. Macaulay.
COLLOQUIALISM
A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse orwriting.
COLLOQUIALIZE
To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one'sstyle of writing.
COLLOQUIST
A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue. Malone.
COLLOTYPE
A photomechanical print made directly from a hardened film ofgelatin or other colloid; also, the process of making such prints.According to one method, the film is sensitized with potassiumdichromate and exposed to light under a reversed negative. After thedichromate has been washed out, the film is soaked in glycerin andwater. As this treatment causes swelling in those parts of the filmwhich have been acted on by light, a plate results from whichimpressions can be taken with prepared ink. The albertype, phototype,and heliotype are collotypes.
COLLOW
Soot; smut. See 1st Colly. [Obs.]
COLLUCTANCY
A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance;opposition of nature. [Obs.]
COLLUCTATION
A struggling; a contention. [Obs.]Colluctation with old hags and hobgoblins. Dr. H. More.
COLLUDE
To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to playinto each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert.If they let things take their course, they will be represented ascolluding with sedition. Burke.
COLLUDER
One who conspires in a fraud.
COLLUM
A neck or cervix. Dunglison.
COLLUSION
An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person ofhis rights, by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden bylaw. Bouvier. Abbott.
COLLUSORY
Collusive.
COLLUTORY
A medicated wash for the mouth.
COLLY
The black grime or soot of coal. [Obs.] Burton.
COLLYBIST
A money changer. [Obs.]In the face of these guilty collybists. Bp. Hall.
COLLYRIUM
An application to the eye, usually an eyewater.
COLOBOMA
A defect or malformation; esp., a fissure of the iris supposedto be a persistent embryonic cleft.
COLOCOLO
A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of theocelot.
COLOCYNTH
The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber(Citrullus, or Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to thewatermelon; coloquintida. It comes in white balls, is intenselybitter, and a powerful cathartic. Called also bitter apple, bittercucumber, bitter gourd.
COLOCYNTHIN
The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow,crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside.
COLOGNE
A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromaticoils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau decologne.
COLOGNE EARTH
An earth of a deep brown color, containing more vegetable thanmineral matter; an earthy variety of lignite, or brown coal.
COLOMBIER
A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.
COLOMBIN
See Calumbin.
COLOMBO
See Calumba.
COLON
That part of the large intestines which extends from the cรฆcumto the rectum.
COLONEL
The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next abovea lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general.
COLONELCY
The office, rank, or commission of a colonel.
COLONELSHIP
Colonelcy. Swift.
COLONER
A colonist. [Obs.] Holland
COLONIAL
Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic,wars.
COLONICAL
Of or pertaining to husbandmen. [Obs.]
COLONIST
A member or inhabitant of a colony.
COLONITIS
See Colitis.
COLONIZATION
Tha act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; theformation of a colony or colonies.The wide continent of America invited colonization. Bancroft.
COLONIZATIONIST
A friend to colonization, esp. (U. S. Hist) to the colonizationof Africa by emigrants from the colored population of the UnitedStates.
COLONIZE
To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people withcolonists; to migrate to and settle in. Bacon.They that would thus colonize the stars with inhabitants. Howell.
COLONIZER
One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist. Bancroft.
COLONNADE
A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals withall the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.
COLONY
A number of animals or plants living or growing together,beyond their usual range.
COLOPHANY
See Colophony.
COLOPHENE
A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation ofcolophony. It is regarded as a polymeric form of terebenthene. Calledalso diterebene.
COLOPHON
An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place anddate of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on thelast page of a book.The colophon, or final description, fell into disuse, and . . . thetitle page had become the principal direct means of identifying thebook. De Morgan.The book was uninjured from title page to colophon. Sir W. Scott.
COLOPHONITE
A coarsely granular variety of garnet.
COLOPHONY
Rosin.
COLOQUINTIDA
See Colocynth. Shak.
COLOR
An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave tothe plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially,thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. Blackstone.
COLOR SERGEANT
See under Sergeant.
COLOR-BLIND
Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, underColor, n.
COLORABLE
Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice."Colorable pretense for infidility." Bp. Stillingfleet.-- Col"or*a*ble*ness, n.-- Col"or*a*bly, adv.Colorable and subtle crimes, that seldom are taken within the walk ofhuman justice. Hooker.
COLORADO BEETLE
A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with tenlongitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards fromits original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to thepotato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potatobeetle.
COLORADO GROUP
A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western NorthAmerica, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouriregion.
COLORADOITE
Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found inColorado.
COLORATE
Colored. [Obs.] Ray.
COLORATION
The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored. Bacon.The females . . . resemble each other in their general type ofcoloration. Darwin.
COLORATURE
Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, orrapid passages.
COLORED
Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroesor persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people.
COLORIFIC
Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies.
COLORIMETER
An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything,especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid.
COLORIMETRY
The quantitative determination of the depth of color of asubstance.
COLORIST
One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; oneto whom coloring is of prime importance.Titian, Paul Veronese, Van Dyck, and the rest of the good colorists.Dryden.
COLORMAN
A vender of paints, etc. Simmonds.
COLOSSAL
Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic.
COLOSSEAN
Colossal. [R.]
COLOSSEUM
The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.]
COLOTOMY
An operation for opening the colon
COLOUR
See Color.
COLP
See Collop.
COLPORTAGE
The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., bycolporteurs.
COLPORTER
Same as Colporteur.
COLPORTEUR
A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling anddistributing religious tracts and books.
COLSTAFF
A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons ontheir shoulders.
COLT
To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously orwantonly. [Obs.]They shook off their bridles and began to colt. Spenser.
COLT PISTOL
A self-loading or semi-automatic pistol with removable magazinein the handle holding seven cartridges. The recoil extracts andejects the empty cartridge case, and reloads ready for another shot.Called also Browning, and Colt-Browning, pistol.
COLT REVOLVER
A revolver made according to a system using a patentedrevolving cylinder, holding six cartridges, patented by Samuel Colt,an American inventor, in 1835. With various modifications, it has formany years been the standard for the United States army.
COLTER
A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut thesward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. [Written alsocoulter.]
COLTISH
Like a colt; wanton; frisky.He was all coltish, full of ragery. Chaucer.-- Colt"ish*ly, adv.-- Colt"ish*ness, n.
COLTSFOOT
A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves androotstock are sometimes employed in medicine. Butterbur coltsfoot(Bot.), a European plant (Petasites vulgaris).
COLUBER
A genus of harmless serpents.
COLUBRINE
like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.
COLUGO
A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), havingalong the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelikemembrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like theflying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur.
COLUMBA
See Calumba.
COLUMBAE
An order of birds, including the pigeons.
COLUMBARY
A dovecote; a pigeon house. Sir T. Browne.
COLUMBATE
A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.
COLUMBATZ FLY
See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo.
COLUMBELLA
A genus of univale shells, abundant in tropical seas. Somespecies, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money.
COLUMBIA
America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given inhonor of Columbus, the discoverer. Dr. T. Dwight.
COLUMBIAD
A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed forthrowing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high anglesof elevation.
COLUMBIAN
Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.
COLUMBIC
Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.Columbic acid (Chem.), a weak acid derived from columbic or niobicoxide, Nb2O5; -- called also niobic acid.
COLUMBIER
See Colombier.
COLUMBIFEROUS
Producing or containing columbium.
COLUMBIN
A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.
COLUMBINE
Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored. "Columbineinnocency." Bacon.
COLUMBITE
A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and highspecific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron andmanganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in NewEngland.
COLUMBIUM
A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a varietyof the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably atHaddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly calledniobium.
COLUMBO
See Calumba.
COLUMBUS DAY
The 12th day of October, on which day in 1492 ChristopherColumbus discovered America, landing on one of the Bahama Islands(probably the one now commonly called Watling Island), and naming it"San Salvador"; -- called also Discovery Day. This day is made alegal holiday in many States of The United States.
COLUMELLA
A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columnella,or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella ofthe ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanicmembrane with the internal ear.
COLUMELLIFORM
Shaped like a little column, or columella.
COLUMN
A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for aroof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usuallycomposed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.
COLUMNAR
Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; likethe shaft of a column. Columnar epithelium (Anat.), epithelium inwhich the cells are priismatic in form, and set upright on thesurface they cover.-- Columnar structure (Geol.), a structure consisting of more orless regular columns, usually six-sided, but sometimes with eight ormore sides. The columns are often fractured transversely, with a cupjoint, showing a concave surface above. This structure ischaracteristic of certain igneous rocks, as basalt, and is due tocontraction in cooling.
COLUMNARITY
The state or quality of being columnar.
COLUMNATED
Having columns; as, columnated temples.
COLUMNED
Having columns.Troas and Ilion's columned citadel. Tennyson.
COLUMNIATION
The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure. Gwilt.
COLURE
One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in thepoles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctialpoints, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the otherintersects the equator at the distance of 90ยบ from the former, and iscalled the solstitial colure.Thrice the equinoctial line He circled; four times crossed the car ofnight From pole to pole, traversing each colure. Milton.
COLY
Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabitAfrica.
COLZA
A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for itsseeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricatingpurposes; summer rape.
COM-
A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with,together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com-before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col-before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h,l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w,and sometimes before other consonants.
COMA
A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult orimpossible to rouse a person. See Carus.
COMANCHES
A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family ofIndians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the UnitedStates; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering andcruelty.
COMART
A covenant. [Obs.] Shak.
COMATE
Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.
COMATOSE
Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as,comatose sleep; comatose fever.
COMATOUS
Comatose.
COMATULA
A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When youngthey are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and clingto seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also featherstars.
COMATULID
Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.
COMB
To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smoothand straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. Seeunder Combing.Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright. Shak.
COMB-SHAPED
Pectinate.
COMBAT
To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.To combat with a blind man I disdain. Milton.After the fall of the republic, the Romans combated only for thechoice of masters. Gibbon.
COMBATABLE
Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatablefoes, evils, or arguments.
COMBATANT
Contending; disposed to contend. B. Jonson.
COMBATER
One who combats. Sherwood.
COMBATIVE
(
COMBATIVENESS
A cranial development supposed to indicate a combativedisposition.
COMBATTANT
In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face toface, each rampant.
COMBBROACH
A tooth of a wool comb. [Written also combrouch.]
COMBE
See Comb.
COMBER
To cumber. [Obs.] Spenser.
COMBINABLE
Capable of combinding; consistent with. [R.] M. Arnold.-- Com*bin"a*ble*ness, n.
COMBINATE
United; joined; betrothed. [R.]
COMBINATION
The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by whichsubstances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight toform distinct compounds.
COMBINE
In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two ormore cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the cardplayed. Combining weight (Chem.), that proportional weight, usuallyreferred to hydrogen as a standard, and for each element fixed andexact, by which an element unites with another to form a distinctcompound. The combining weights either are identical with, or aremultiples or multiples of, the atomic weight. See Atomic weight,under Atomic, a.
COMBINED
United closely; confederated; chemically united.
COMBINEDLY
; jointly.
COMBINER
One who, or that which, combines.
COMBING
See Coamings. Combing machine (Textile Manuf.), a machine forcombing wool, flax, cotton, etc., and separating the longer and morevaluable fiber from the shorter. See also Carding machine, underCarding.
COMBLESS
Without a comb or crest; as, a combless ceck.
COMBOLOIO
A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads. Byron.
COMBUST
So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, asthe moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half fromthe sun. [Obs.]Planets that are oft combust. Milton.
COMBUSTIBILITY
The quality of being combustible.
COMBUSTIBLE
A substance that may bee set on fire, or which is liable totake fire and burn.All such combustibles as are cheap enough for common use go under thename of fuel. Ure.
COMBUSTIBLENESS
Combustibility.
COMBUSTION
The combination of a combustible with a supporter ofcombustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.Combustion results is common cases from the mutual chemical actionand reaction of the combustible and the oxygen of the atmosphere,whereby a new compound is formed. Ure.Supporter of combustion (Chem.), a gas as oxygen, the combination ofwhich with a combustible, as coal, constitutes combustion.
COMBUSTIOUS
Inflammable. [Obs.] Shak.
COME
To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any trickshere. [Slang] To come it, to succeed in a trick of any sort. [Slang]
COME-ALONG
A gripping device, as for stretching wire, etc., consisting oftwo jaws so attached to a ring that they are closed by pulling on thering.
COME-OUTER
One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or otherorganization; a radical reformer. [Colloq. U. S.]
COMEDIENNE
A women who plays in comedy.
COMEDIETTA
A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.
COMEDO
A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., whichon pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retainedoily secretion, with a black head (dirt).
COMEDOWN
A downfall; an humillation. [Colloq.]
COMEDY
A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright andamusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the mannersof society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play inwhich mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; --opposed to tragedy.With all the vivacity if comedy. Macaulay.Are come to play a pleasant comedy. Shak.
COMELILY
In a suitable or becoming manner. [R.] Sherwood.
COMELINESS
The quality or state of being comely.Comeliness is a disposing fair Of things and actions in fit time andplace. Sir J. Davies.Strength, comeliness of shape, or amplest merit. Milton.Comeliness signifies something less forcible than beauty, lesselegant than grace, and less light than prettiness. Johnson.
COMELY
In a becoming manner. Ascham.
COMER
One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and ispresent. All comers, all who come, or offer, to take part in amatter, especially in a contest or controversy. "To prove it againstall comers." Bp. Stillingfleet.
COMES
The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.
COMESSATION
A reveling; a rioting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
COMESTIBLE
Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.Some herbs are most comestible. Sir T. Elyot.
COMET
A member of the solar system which usually moves in anelongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion,and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. Acomet commonly consists of three parts: the nucleus, the envelope, orcoma, and the tail; but one or more of these parts is frequentlywanting. See Illustration in Appendix.
COMETARIUM
An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a cometround the sun. Hutton.
COMETARY
Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet. Cheyne.
COMETHER
Matter; affair.
COMETIC
Relating to a comet.
COMETOGRAPHER
One who describes or writes about comets.
COMETOGRAPHY
A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.
COMETOLOGY
The department of astronomy relating to comets.
COMFIT
A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preservedwith sugar and dried; a confection.
COMFITURE
See Comfit, n.
COMFORT
Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to giveaid and comfort to the enemy.
COMFORTABLE
A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; acomfort. [U. S.]
COMFORTABLENESS
State of being comfortable or comforting manner.Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. Is. xl. 2.
COMFORTABLY
In a comfortable or comforting manner.
COMFORTER
The Holy Spirit, -- reffering to his office of comfortingbelievers.But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will sendin my name, he shall teach you all things. John xiv. 26.
COMFORTLESS
Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless.Comfortless through turanny or might. Spenser.
COMFORTMENT
Act or process of administering comfort. [Obs.]The gentle comfortment and entertainment of the said embassador.Hakluyt.
COMFORTRESS
A woman who comforts.To be your comfortress, and to preserve you. B. Jonson.
COMFREY
A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of thegenus Symphytum.
COMIC
A comedian. [Obs.] Steele.
COMICALITY
The quality of being comical; something comical.
COMICRY
The power of exciting mirth; comicalness. [R.] H. Giles.
COMITIA
A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers orpassing laws.
COMITIAL
Relating to the comitia, or popular assembles of the Romans forelecting officers and passing laws. Middleton.
COMITIVA
A body of followers; -- applied to the lawless or brigand bandsin Italy and Sicily.
COMITY
Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals;friendly equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comityof States. Comity of nations (International Law), the courtesy bywhich nations recognize within their own territory, or in theircourts, the peculiar institutions of another nation or the rights andprivileges acquired by its citizens in their own land. By someauthorities private international law rests on this comity, but thebetter opinion is that it is part of the common law of the land, andhence is obligatory as law.
COMMA
A small interval (the difference beyween a major and minor halfstep), seldom used except by tuners. Comma bacillus (Physiol.), avariety of bacillus shaped like a comma, found in the intestines ofpatients suffering from cholera. It is considered by some as having aspecial relation to the disease; -- called also cholera bacillus.-- Comma butterfly (Zoรถl.), an American butterfly (Grapta comma),having a white comma-shaped marking on the under side of the wings.
COMMANDABLE
Capable of being commanded.
COMMANDANT
A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body ofmen; as, the commandant of a navy-yard.
COMMANDATORY
Mandatory; as, commandatory authority. [Obs.]
COMMANDEER
To compel to perform military service; to seize for militarypurposes; -- orig. used of the Boers.
COMMANDER
An officer who ranks next below a captain, -- ranking with alieutenant colonel in the army.
COMMANDERSHIP
The office of a commander.
COMMANDINGLY
In a commanding manner.
COMMANDMENT
One of the ten laws or precepts given by God to the Israelitesat Mount Sinai.
COMMANDO
In South Africa, a military body or command; also, sometimes,an expedition or raid; as, a commando of a hundred Boers.
COMMANDRESS
A woman invested with authority to command. Hooker.
COMMANDRY
See Commandery.
COMMARK
The frontier of a country; confines. [Obs.] Shelton.
COMMATERIAL
Consisting of the same material. [Obs.] Bacon.
COMMATIC
Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise.
COMMATISM
Conciseness in writing. Bp. Horsley.
COMMEASURABLE
Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional.She being now removed by death, a commeasurable grief took as fullpossession of him as joy had one. I. Walton.
COMMEASURE
To be commensurate with; to equal. Tennyson.
COMMEMORABLE
Worthy to be commemorated.
COMMEMORATE
To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; tocelebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event,by some act of respect of affection, intended to preserve theremembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferingsand dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper;to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance ofthe Fourth of July.We are called upon to commemorate a revolution. Atterbury.
COMMEMORATIVE
Tending or intended to commemorate. "A sacrifice commemorativeof Christ's offering up his body for us." Hammond.An inscription commemorative of his victory. Sir G. C. Lewis.
COMMEMORATOR
One who commemorates.
COMMEMORATORY
Serving to commemorate; commomerative. Bp. Hooper.
COMMENCE
To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of.Many a wooer doth commence his suit. Shak.
COMMEND
Compliments; greetings. [Obs.]Hearty commends and much endeared love to you. Howell.
COMMENDABLE
Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy.Order and decent ceremonies in the church are not only comely butcommendable. Bacon.-- Com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.-- Com*mend"a*bly, adv.
COMMENDAM
A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually abishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided. A livingso held was said to be held in commendam. The practice was abolishedby law in 1836.There was [formerly] some sense for commendams. Selden.Partnership in commendam. See under Partnership.
COMMENDATARY
One who holds a living in commendam.
COMMENDATION
A message of affection or respect; compliments; greeting.[Obs.]Hark you, Margaret; No princely commendations to my king Shak.
COMMENDATOR
One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary.Chalmers.
COMMENDATORY
A commendation; eulogy. [R.] "Commendatories to our affection."Sharp.
COMMENDER
One who commends or praises.
COMMENSAL
An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in with, or on,another, partaking usually of the same food. Both species may bebenefited by the association.
COMMENSALISM
The act of eating together; table fellowship.
COMMENSALITY
Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the sametable. [Obs.] "Promiscuous commensality." Sir T. Browne.
COMMENSATION
Commensality. [Obs.]Daniel . . . declined pagan commensation. Sir T. Browne.
COMMENSURABILITY
The quality of being commersurable. Sir T. Browne.
COMMENSURABLE
Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured bythe same number, quantity, or measure.-- Com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n. Commensurable numbers or quantities(Math.), those that can be exactly expressed by some common unit;thus a foot and yard are commensurable, since both can be expressedin terms of an inch, one being 12 inches, the other 36 inches.-- Numbers, or Quantities, commensurable in power, those whosesquares are commensurable.
COMMENSURABLY
In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable.
COMMENSURATENESS
The state or quality of being commensurate. Foster.
COMMENSURATION
The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate.All fitness lies in a particular commensuration, or proportion of onething to another. South.
COMMENT
To make remarks, observations, or criticism; especially, towrite notes on the works of an author, with a view to illustrate hismeaning, or to explain particular passages; to write annotations; --often followed by on or upon.A physician to comment on your malady. Shak.Critics . . . proceed to comment on him. Dryden.I must translate and comment. Pope.
COMMENTATE
To write comments or notes upon; to make comments. [R.]Commentate upon it, and return it enriched. Lamb.
COMMENTATOR
One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; anannotator.The commentator's professed object is to explain, to enforce, toillustrate doctrines claimed as true. Whewell.
COMMENTATORIAL
Pertaining to the making of commentaries. Whewell.
COMMENTATORSHIP
The office or occupation of a commentator.
COMMENTER
One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator.
COMMENTITIOUS
Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system ofreligion. [Obs.] Warburton.
COMMERCE DESTROYER
A very fast, unarmored, lightly armed vessel designed tocapture or destroy merchant vessels of an enemy. Not being intendedto fight, they may be improvised from fast passenger steamers.
COMMERCIAL
Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied withcommerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercialrelations. "Princely commercial houses." Macaulay. Commercialcollege, a school for giving instruction in commercial knowledge andbusiness.-- Commercial law. See under Law.-- Commercial note paper, a small size of writing paper, usuallyabout 5 by 7ยฝ or 8 inches.-- Commercial paper, negotiable paper given in due course ofbusiness. It includes bills of exchange, promissory notes, bankcheks, etc.-- Commercial traveler, an agent of a wholesale house who travelsfrom town to town to solicit orders.
COMMERCIALISM
The commercial spirit or method. C. Kingsley.
COMMERCIALLY
In a commercial manner.
COMMIGRATE
To migrate together. [R.]
COMMIGRATION
Migration together. [R.] Woodward.
COMMINATORY
Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms. B.Jonson.
COMMINGLE
To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; toblend. Bacon.
COMMINGLER
One that commingles; specif., a device for noiseless heating ofwater by steam, in a vessel filled with a porous mass, as of pebbles.
COMMINUTE
To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; topulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones;to comminute food with the teeth. Pennant. Comminuted fracture. Seeunder Fracture.
COMMINUTION
Fracture (of a bone) into a number of pieces. Dunglison.
COMMISERABLE
Pitiable. [Obs.] Bacon.
COMMISERATE
To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.Then must we those, who groan, beneath the weight Of age, disease, orwant, commiserate. Denham.We should commiserate our mutual ignorance. Locke.
COMMISERATION
The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, ordistresses of another; pity; compassion.And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and roughhearts of flint. Shak.
COMMISERATIVE
Feeling or expressing commiseration. Todd.
COMMISERATOR
One who pities.
COMMISSARIAL
Of or pertaining to a commissary.
COMMISSARY
An officer on the bishop, who exercises ecclesiasticaljurisdiction in parts of the diocese at a distance from the residenceof the bishop. Ayliffe.
COMMISSARYSHIP
The office or employment of a commissary. Ayliffe.
COMMISSIONAIRE
Of pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by acommission or warrant. [R.]Delegate or commissionary authority. Bp. Hall.
COMMISSIONATE
To commission [Obs.]
COMMISSIONSHIP
The office of commissioner. Sir W. Scott.
COMMISSIVE
Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving,commission. [R.]
COMMISSURAL
Of or pertaining to a commissure.
COMMISSURE
The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in theparsnip, caraway, etc.
COMMIT
To sin; esp., to be incontinent. [Obs.]Commit not with man's sworn spouse. Shak.
COMMITTABLE
Capable of being committed.
COMMITTAL
The act of commiting, or the state of being committed;commitment.
COMMITTEE
One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter orbussiness is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court,or by any collective body of men acting together. Commitee of thewhole [house], a committee, embracing all the members present, intowhich a legislative or deliberative body sometimes resolves itself,for the purpose of considering a particular measure under theoperation of different rules from those governing the generallegislative proceedings. The committee of the whole has its ownchairman, and reports its action in the form of recommendations.-- Standing committee. See under Standing.
COMMITTEEMAN
A member of a committee.
COMMITTIBLE
Capable of being committed; liable to be committed. [R.] Sir T.Browne.
COMMIX
To mix or mingle together; to blend.The commixed impressions of all the colors do stir up and beget asensation of white. Sir I. Newton.To commix With winds that sailors rail at. Shak.
COMMIXION
Commixture. Shak.
COMMIXTION
Commixture; mingling. [R.]An exact commixtion of the ingredients. Boyle.
COMMODATE
A gratuitous loan.
COMMODIOUS
Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities;serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, acommodious house. "A commodious drab." Shak. "Commodious gold." Pope.The haven was not commodious to winter in. Acts. xxvii. 12.
COMMODIOUSLY
In a commodious manner.To pass commodiously this life. Milton.
COMMODIOUSNESS
State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose;convience; roominess.Of cities, the greatness and riches increase according to thecommodiousness of their situation. Sir W. Temple.The commodiousness of the harbor. Johnson.
COMMODORE
An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, bycourtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodorecorresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.
COMMON
The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in commoneither with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from thecommunity of interest which arises between the claimant of the rightand the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and othercommoners entitled to the same right. Common appendant, a rightbelonging to the owners or occupiers of arable land to put commonablebeasts upon the waste land in the manor where they dwell.-- Common appurtenant, a similar right applying to lands in othermanors, or extending to other beasts, besides those which aregenerally commonable, as hogs.-- Common because of vicinage or neighborhood, the right of theinhabitants of each of two townships, lying contiguous to each other,which have usually intercommoned with one another, to let theirbeasts stray into the other's fields.-- Common in gross or at large, a common annexed to a man's person,being granted to him and his heirs by deed; or it may be claimed byprescriptive right, as by a parson of a church or other corporationsole. Blackstone.-- Common of estovers, the right of taking wood from another'sestate.-- Common of pasture, the right of feeding beasts on the land ofanother. Burill.-- Common of piscary, the right of fishing in waters belonging toanother.-- Common of turbary, the right of digging turf upon the ground ofanother.
COMMON SENSE
See Common sense, under Sense.
COMMONAGE
The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anythingin common with others.The claim of comonage . . . in most of the forests. Burke.
COMMONISH
Somewhat common; commonplace; vulgar.
COMMONITION
Advice; warning; instruction. [Obs.] Bailey.
COMMONITIVE
Monitory. [Obs.]Only commemorative and commonitive. Bp. Hall.
COMMONITORY
Calling to mind; giving admonition. [Obs.] Foxe.
COMMONPLACE
Common; ordinary; trite; as, a commonplace person, orobservation.
COMMONPLACENESS
The quality of being commonplace; commonness.
COMMONTY
A common; a piece of land in which two or more persons have acommon right. Bell.
COMMONWEAL
Commonwealth.Such a prince, So kind a father of the commonweal. Shak.
COMMONWEALTH
Specifically, the form of government established on the deathof Charles I., in 1649, which existed under Oliver Cromwell and hisson Richard, ending with the abdication of the latter in 1659.
COMMORANCE
See Commorancy.
COMMORANCY
A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation.Commorancy consists in usually lying there. Blackstone.
COMMORANT
Ordinarily residing; inhabiting.All freeholders within the precinct . . . and all persons commoranttherein. Blackstone.
COMMORATION
The act of staying or residing in a place. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
COMMORIENT
Dying together or at the same time. [R.] Sir G. Buck.
COMMORSE
Remorse. [Obs.] "With sad commorse." Daniel.
COMMOTE
To commove; to disturb; to stir up. [R.]Society being more or less commoted and made uncomfortable.Hawthorne.
COMMUNAL
Pertaining to a commune.
COMMUNALISM
A French theory of government which holds that commune shouldbe a kind of independent state, and the national government aconfederation of such states, having only limited powers. It isadvocated by advanced French republicans; but it should not beconfounded with communism.
COMMUNALIST
An advocate of communalism.
COMMUNALISTIC
Pertaining to communalism.
COMMUNE
Communion; sympathetic intercourse or conversation betweenfriends.For days of happy commune dead. Tennyson.
COMMUNICABILITY
The quality of being communicable; capability of beingimparted.
COMMUNICANT
Communicating. [R.] Coleridge.
COMMUNICATION
A trope, by which a speaker assumes that his hearer is apartner in his sentiments, and says we, instead of I or you. Beattie.
COMMUNICATIVE
Inclined to communicate; ready to impart to others.Determine, for the future, to be less communicative. Swift.
COMMUNICATIVENESS
The quality of being communicative. Norris.
COMMUNICATOR
One who communicates. Boyle.
COMMUNICATORY
Imparting knowledge or information.Canonical and communicatory letters. Barrow.
COMMUNISM
A scheme of equalizing the social conditions of life;specifically, a scheme which contemplates the abolition ofinequalities in the possession of property, as by distributing allwealth equally to all, or by holding all wealth in common for theequal use and advantage of all.
COMMUNISTIC
Living or having their nests in common, as certain birds.
COMMUTABILITY
The quality of being commutable.
COMMUTABLE
Capable of being commuted or interchanged.The predicate and subject are not commutable. Whately.
COMMUTABLENESS
The quality of being commutable; interchangeableness.
COMMUTATION
The change of a penalty or punishment by the pardoning power ofthe State; as, the commutation of a sentence of death to banishmentor imprisonment.Suits are allowable in the spiritual courts for money agreed to begiven as a commutation for penance. Blackstone.
COMMUTATION TICKET
A ticket for transportation at a reduced rate in considerationof some special circumstance, as increase of travel; specif., aticket for a certain number of, or for daily, trips betweenneighboring places at a reduced rate, such as are commonly used bythose doing business in a city and living in a suburb. Commutationtickets are excepted from the prohibition against special ratescontained in the Interstate Commerce Act of Feb. 4, 1887 (24 Stat.379), and in 145 U. S. 263 it was held that party tickets were alsoexcepted as being "obviously within the commuting principle."
COMMUTATIVE
Relative to exchange; interchangeable; reciprocal.-- Com*mut"a*tive"ly, adv.Rich traders, from their success, are presumed . . . to havecultivated an habitual regard to commutative justice. Burke.
COMMUTATOR
A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of anelectrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, bymeans of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or tohave the same direction.
COMMUTE
To exchange; to put or substitute something else in place of,as a smaller penalty, obligation, or payment, for a greater, or asingle thing for an aggregate; hence; to lessen; to diminish; as, tocommute a sentence of death to one of imprisonment for life; tocommute tithes; to commute charges for fares.The sounds water and fire, being once annexed to those two elements,it was certainly more natural to call beings participating of thefirst "watery", and the last "fiery", than to commute the terms, andcall them by the reverse. J. HarrisThe utmost that could be obtained was that her sentence should becommuted from burning to beheading. Macaulay.
COMMUTER
One who commutes; especially, one who commutes in traveling.
COMMUTUAL
Mutual; reciprocal; united. [R.]There, with commutual zeal, we both had strove. Pope.
COMOSE
Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed.Gray.
COMPACT
An agreement between parties; a covenant or contract.The law of nations depends on mutual compacts, treaties, leagues,etc. Blackstone.Wedlock is described as the indissoluble compact. Macaulay.The federal constitution has been styled a compact between the Statesby which it was ratified. Wharton.
COMPACTED
Compact; pressed close; concentrated; firmly united.
COMPACTEDLY
In a compact manner.
COMPACTEDNESS
A state of being compact.
COMPACTER
One who makes a compact.
COMPACTIBLE
That may be compacted.
COMPACTION
The act of making compact, or the state of being compact.[Obs.] Bacon.
COMPACTLY
In a compact manner; with close union of parts; densely;tersely.
COMPACTNESS
The state or quality of being compact; close union of parts;density.
COMPACTURE
Close union or connection of parts; manner of joining;construction. [Obs.] "With comely compass and compacture strong."Spenser.
COMPAGES
A system or structure of many parts united.A regular compages of pipes and vessels. Ray.
COMPAGINATE
To unite or hold together; as, the side pieces compaginate theframe. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
COMPAGINATION
Union of parts; structure. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
COMPANABLE
Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COMPANATOR
Same as Impanator.
COMPANIABLE
Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Bacon.
COMPANIONABLE
Fitted to be a companion; fit for good fellowship; agreeable;sociable. "Each companionable guest." Mallett. "Companionable wit."Clarendon.-- Com*pan"ion*a*ble*ness, n.-- Com*pan"ion*a*bly, adv.
COMPANIONLESS
Without a companion.
COMPANIONSHIP
Fellowship; association; the act or fact of keeping companywith any one. Shak.He never seemed to avail himself of my sympathy other than by merecompanionship. W. Irwing
COMPANY
A subdivision of a regiment of troops under the command of acaptain, numbering in the United States (full strength) 100 men.
COMPARABLE
Capable of being compared; worthy of comparison.There is no blessing of life comparable to the enjoyment of adiscreet and virtuous friend. Addison.-- Com"pa*ra*ble*ness, n.-- Com"pa*ra*bly, adv.
COMPARATE
One of two things compared together.
COMPARATION
A making ready; provision. [Obs.]
COMPARATIVE
Expressing a degree greater or less than the positive degree ofthe quality denoted by an adjective or adverb. The comparative degreeis formed from the positive by the use of -er, more, or less; as,brighter, more bright, or less bright. Comparative sciences, thosewhich are based on a comprehensive comparison of the range of objectsor facts in any branch or department, and which aim to study out andtreat of the fundamental laws or systems of relation pervading them;as, comparative anatomy, comparative physiology, comparativephilology.
COMPARATIVELY
According to estimate made by comparison; relatively; notpositively or absolutely.With but comparatively few exceptions. Prescott.
COMPARATOR
An instrument or machine for comparing anything to be measuredwith a standard measure; -- applied especially to a machine forcomparing standards of length.
COMPARE
To inflect according to the degrees of comparison; to statepositive, comparative, and superlative forms of; as, most adjectivesof one syllable are compared by affixing "-er" and "-est" to thepositive form; as, black, blacker, blackest; those of more than onesyllable are usually compared by prefixing "more" and "most", or"less" and "least", to the positive; as, beautiful, more beautiful,most beautiful.
COMPARER
One who compares.
COMPARISON
The modification, by inflection or otherwise, which theadjective and adverb undergo to denote degrees of quality orquantity; as, little, less, least, are examples of comparison.
COMPART
To divide; to mark out into parts or subdivisions. [R.]The crystal surface is comparted all In niches verged with rubies.Glover.
COMPARTITION
The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also,a division or compartment. [Obs.]Their temples . . . needed no compartitions. Sir H. Wotton.
COMPARTMENT
One of the sections into which the hold of a ship is divided bywater-tight bulkheads.
COMPARTNER
See Copartner. [Obs.]
COMPASS
The range of notes, or tones, within the capacity of a voice orinstument.You would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass.Shak.
COMPASSABLE
Capable of being compassed or accomplished. Burke.
COMPASSED
Rounded; arched. [Obs.]She came . . . into the compassed window. Shak.
COMPASSES
An instrument for describing circles, measuring figures, etc.,consisting of two, or (rarely) more, pointed branches, or legs,usually joined at the top by a rivet on which they move.
COMPASSING
Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers.
COMPASSION
Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrowexcited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity;commiseration.Womanly igenuity set to work by womanly compassion. Macaulay.
COMPASSIONABLE
Deserving compassion or pity; pitiable. [R.] Barrow.
COMPASSIONATE
To have compassion for; to pity; to commiserate; to sympathizewith.Compassionates my pains, and pities me. Addison.
COMPASSIONATELY
In a compassionate manner; mercifully. Clarendon.
COMPASSIONATENESS
The quality or state of being compassionate.
COMPASSLESS
Having no compass. Knowles.
COMPATERNITY
The relation of a godfather to a person. [Obs.]The relation of gossipred or compaternity by the cannon law is aspiritual affinity. Sir J. Da
COMPATIBILITY
The quality or power of being compatible or congruous;congruity; as, a compatibility of tempers; a compatibility ofproperties.
COMPATIBLE
Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; notrepugnant; -- usually followed by with.Our poets have joined together such qualities as are by nature themost compatible. Broome.
COMPATIBLENESS
Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement.
COMPATIBLY
In a compatible manner.
COMPATIENT
Suffering or enduring together. [Obs.] Sir G. Buck.
COMPATRIOT
One of the same country, and having like interests and feeling.The distrust with which they felt themselves to be regarded by theircompatriots in America. Palfrey.
COMPATRIOTISM
The condition of being compatriots.
COMPEAR
To appear in court personally or by attorney. [Scot]
COMPEER
An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; acomrade; a mate.And him thus answer 'd soon his bold compeer. Milton.
COMPEL
To make one yield or submit. "If she can not entreat, I can notcompel." Shak.
COMPELLABLE
Capable of being compelled or constrained. Blackstone.
COMPELLABLY
By compulsion.
COMPELLATION
Style of address or salutation; an appellation. "Metaphoricalcompellations." Milton.He useth this endearing compellation, "My little children." Bp.Beveridge.The peculiar compellation of the kings in France is by "Sire," whichis nothing else but father. Sir W. Temple.
COMPELLATIVE
The name by which a person is addressed; an appellative.
COMPELLATORY
Serving to compel; compulsory. [R.]
COMPELLER
One who compels or constrains.
COMPEND
A compendium; an epitome; a summary.A compend and recapitulation of the Mosaical law. Bp. Burnet.
COMPENDIARIOUS
Short; compendious. [Obs.] Bailey.
COMPENDIATE
To sum or collect together. [Obs.] Bp. King.
COMPENDIOUS
Containing the substance oe general principles of a subject orwork in a narrow compass; abridged; summarized.More compendious and exeditious ways. Woodward.Three things be required in the oration of a man having authority --that it be compendious, sententious, and delectable. Sir T. Elyot.
COMPENDIOUSLY
In a compendious manner.Compendiously exressed by the word chaos. Bentley.
COMPENDIOUSNESS
The state or quality of being compendious.
COMPENDIUM
A brief compilation or composition, containing the principalheads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; anabridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.A short system or compendium of a sience. I. Watts.
COMPENSATE
To make amends; to supply an equivalent; -- followed by for;as, nothing can compensate for the loss of reputation.
COMPENSATIVE
Affording compensation.
COMPENSATOR
An iron plate or magnet placed near the compass on iron vesselsto neutralize the effect of the ship's attraction on the needle.
COMPENSATORY
Serving for compensation; making amends. Jer. Taylor.
COMPENSE
To compensate. [Obs.] Bacon.
COMPERENDINATE
To delay. Bailey.
COMPESCE
To hold in check; to restrain. [R.] Carlyle.
COMPETE
To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing,position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend inrivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete withone another.The rival statesmen, with eyes fixed on America, were all the whilecompeting for European alliances. Bancroft.
COMPETENTLY
In a competent manner; adequately; suitably.
COMPETIBLE
Compatible; suitable; consistent. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
COMPETITION
The act of seeking, or endevearing to gain, what another isendeavoring to gain at the same time; common strife for the sameobjects; strife for superiority; emulous contest; rivalry, as forapprobation, for a prize, or as where two or more persons are engagedin the same business and each seeking patronage; -- followed by forbefore the object sought, and with before the person or thingcompeted with.Competition to the crown there is none, nor can be. Bacon.A portrait, with which one of Titian's could not come incompetititon. Dryden.There is no competition but for the second place. Dryden.Where competition does not act at all there is complete monopoly. A.T. Hadley.
COMPETITIVE
Of or pertaining to competition; producing competition;competitory; as, a competitive examination.
COMPETITORY
Acting in competition; competing; rival.
COMPETITRESS
A woman who competes.
COMPETITRIX
A competitress.
COMPILATOR
Compiler. [Obs.]
COMPILEMENT
Compilation. [R.]
COMPILER
One who compiles; esp., one who makes books by compilation.
COMPINGE
To compress; to shut up. [Obs.] Burton.
COMPLACENT
Self-satisfied; contented; kindly; as, a complacent temper; acomplacent smile.They look up with a sort of complacent awe . . . to kings. Burke.
COMPLACENTIAL
Marked by, or causing, complacence. [Obs.] "Complacentiallove." Baxter.
COMPLACENTLY
In a complacent manner.
COMPLAIN
To lament; to bewail. [Obs.]They might the grievance inwardly complain. Daniel.By chaste Lucrece's soul that late complain'd Her wrongs to us. Shak.
COMPLAINABLE
That may be complained of. [R.] Feltham.
COMPLAINER
One who complains or laments; one who finds fault; a murmurer.Beattie.Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought. Shak.
COMPLAINT
A formal allegation or charge against a party made or presentedto the appropriate court or officer, as for a wrong done or a crimecommitted (in the latter case, generally under oath); an information;accusation; the initial bill in proceedings in equity.
COMPLAINTFUL
Full of complaint. [Obs.]
COMPLAISANCE
Disposition to please or oblige; obliging compliance with thewishes of others; a deportment indicative of a desire to please;courtesy; civility.These [ladies] . . . are by the just complaisance and gallantry ofour nation the most powerful part of our people. Addison.They strive with their own hearts and keep them down, In complaisanceto all the fools in town. Young.
COMPLAISANT
Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant; as, acomplaisant gentleman.There are to whom my satire seems too bold: Scarce to wise Petercomplaisant enough. Pope.
COMPLANAR
See Coplanar.
COMPLANATE
Flattened to a level surface. [R.]
COMPLECTED
Complexioned. [Low, New Eng.]
COMPLEMENT
A second quantity added to a given quantity to make equal to athird given quantity.
COMPLEMENTARY
Serving to fill out or to complete; as, complementary numbers.Complementary colors. See under Color.-- Complementary angles (Math.), two angles whose sum is 90ยฐ.
COMPLETE
Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to thetypical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil.
COMPLETELY
In a complete manner; fully.
COMPLETEMENT
Act of completing or perfecting; completion. [Obs.] Dryden.
COMPLETENESS
The state of being complete.
COMPLETIVE
Making complete. [R.] J. Harris.
COMPLETORY
Serving to fulfill.Completory of ancient presignifications. Barrow.
COMPLEX
Assemblage of related things; colletion; complication.This parable of the wedding supper comprehends in it the wholecomplex of all the blessings and privileges exhibited by the gospel.South.Complex of lines (Geom.), all the possible straight lines in spacebeing considered, the entire system of lines which satisfy a singlerelation constitute a complex; as, all the lines which meet a givencurve make up a complex. The lines which satisfy two relationsconstitute a congruency of lines; as, the entire system of lines,each one of which meets two given surfaces, is a congruency.
COMPLEXED
Complex, complicated. [Obs.] "Complexed significations." Sir T.Browne.
COMPLEXEDNESS
The quality or state of being complex or involved;complication.The complexedness of these moral ideas. Locke.
COMPLEXIONAL
Of or pertaining to constitutional complexion.A moral rather than a complexional timidity. Burke.
COMPLEXIONALLY
Constitutionally. [R.]Though corruptible, not complexionally vicious. Burke.
COMPLEXIONARY
Pertaining to the complexion, or to the care of it. Jer.Taylor.
COMPLEXIONED
Having (such) a complexion; -- used in composition; as, a dark-complexioned or a ruddy-complexioned person.A flower is the best-complexioned grass, as a pearl is the best-colored clay. Fuller.
COMPLEXLY
In a complex manner; not simply.
COMPLEXNESS
The state of being complex; complexity. A. Smith.
COMPLEXUS
A complex; an aggregate of parts; a complication.
COMPLIABLE
Capable of bending or yielding; apt to yield; compliant.Another compliable mind. Milton.The Jews . . . had made their religion compliable, and accemodated totheir passions. Jortin.
COMPLIANCY
Compliance; disposition to yield to others. Goldsmith.
COMPLIANT
Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive. "The compliant boughs."Milton.
COMPLIANTLY
In a compliant manner.
COMPLICACY
A state of being complicate or intricate. Mitford.
COMPLICANT
Overlapping, as the elytra of certain beetles.
COMPLICATE
Folded together, or upon itself, with the fold runninglengthwise.
COMPLICATELY
In a complex manner.
COMPLICATENESS
Complexity. Sir M. Hale.
COMPLICATION
A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances orconditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but notnecessarily connected with it.
COMPLICE
An accomplice. [Obs.]To quell the rebels and their complices. Shak.
COMPLICITY
The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.
COMPLIER
One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yieldytemper. Swift.
COMPLIMENT
An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard,confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech orattention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to afriend.Tedious waste of time, to sit and hear So many hollow compliments andlies. Milton.Many a compliment politely penned. Cowper.To make one a compliment, to show one respect; to praise one in aflattering way.Locke.-- To make one's compliments to, to offer formal courtesias to.-- To stand on compliment, to treat with ceremony.
COMPLIMENTAL
Complimentary. [Obs.]Languages . . . grow rich and abundant in complimental phrases, andsuch froth. Sir H. Wotton.-- Com`pli*men"tal*ly, adv. [Obs.] Boyle.-- Com`pli*men"tal*ness, n. [Obs.] Hammond.
COMPLIMENTARY
Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, orcontaining, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentaryticket. "Complimentary addresses." Prescott.
COMPLIMENTATIVE
Complimentary. [R.] Boswell.
COMPLIMENTER
One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.
COMPLOT
A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; aconspiracy.I know their complot is to have my life. Shak.
COMPLOTMENT
A plotting together. [R.]
COMPLOTTER
One joined in a plot. Dryden.
COMPLUTENSIAN
Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a citynear Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible.
COMPLUVIUM
A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling,through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern.
COMPLY
To infold; to embrace. [Obs.]Seemed to comply, Cloudlike, the daintie deitie. Herrick.
COMPO
Short for Composition; -- used, esp. in England, colloq. invarious trade applications; as :(a) A mortar made of sand and cement.(b) A carver's mixture of resin, whiting, and glue, used  instead ofplaster of Paris for ornamenting walls and cornices.(c) A composition for billiard balls.(d) A preparation of which printer's rollers are made.(e) A preparation used in currying leather.(f) Composition paid by a debtor.
COMPONE
To compose; to settle; to arrange. [Obs.]A good pretense for componing peace. Strype.
COMPONENT
Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting;constituent.The component parts of natural bodies. Sir I. Newton.
COMPORT
Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment. [Obs.]I knew them well, and marked their rude comport. Dryden.
COMPORTABLE
Suitable; consistent. [Obs.] "Some comportable method." Wotton.
COMPORTANCE
Behavior; comport. [Obs.]Goodly comportance each to other bear. Spenser.
COMPORTATION
A bringing together. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.
COMPORTMENT
Manner of acting; behavior; bearing.A graceful comportment of their bodies. Cowley.Her serious and devout comportment. Addison.
COMPOS-MENTIS
One who is compos mentis. [Colloq.]
COMPOSE
To arrange (types) in a composing stick in order for printing;to set (type).
COMPOSED
Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-possessed.The Mantuan there in sober triumph sate, Composed his posture, andhis look sedate. Pope.-- Com*pos"ed*ly (, adv.-- Com*pos"ed*ness, n.
COMPOSITAE
A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowersarranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthersunited in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples.
COMPOSITE
Belonging to a certain order which is composed of the Ionicorder grafted upon the Corinthian. It is called also the Roman or theItalic order, and is one of the five orders recognized by the Italianwriters of the sixteenth century. See Capital.
COMPOSITION
The adjustment of a debt, or avoidance of an obligation, bysome form of compensation agreed on between the parties; also, thesum or amount of compensation agreed upon in the adjustment.Compositions for not taking the order of knighthood. Hallam.Cleared by composition with their creditors. Blackstone.
COMPOSITIVE
Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.[R.]
COMPOSITOR
One who sets type and arranges it for use.
COMPOSITOUS
Belonging to the Compositรฆ; composite. [R.] Darwin.
COMPOSSIBLE
Able to exist with another thing; consistent. [R.]Chillingworth.
COMPOST
A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of varioussubstances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughlymingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap.And do not spread the compost on the weeds To make them ranker. Shak.
COMPOSTURE
Manure; compost. [Obs.] Shak.
COMPOTATION
The act of drinking or tippling together. [R.]The fashion of compotation. Sir W. Scott.
COMPOTATOR
One who drinks with another. [R.] Pope.
COMPOTE
A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserveits form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears.Littr
COMPOTIER
A dish for holding compotes, fruit, etc.
COMPOUND
In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house,outbuildings, etc.
COMPOUND CONTROL
A system of control in which a separate manipulation, as of arudder, may be effected by either of two movements, in differentdirections, of a single lever, etc.
COMPOUNDABLE
That may be compounded.
COMPOUNDER
A Jacobite who favored the restoration of James II, oncondition of a general amnesty and of guarantees for the security ofthe civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the realm.
COMPRADOR
A kind of steward or agent. [China] S. W. Williams
COMPRECATION
A praying together. [Obs.] Bp. Wilkins.
COMPREHENSIBILITY
The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability ofbeing understood.
COMPREHENSIBLENESS
The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility.
COMPREHENSION
The complement of attributes which make up the notion signifiedby a general term.
COMPREHENSIVE
Possessing peculiarities that are characteristic of severaldiverse groups.
COMPREHENSIVELY
In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope.
COMPREHENSIVENESS
The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope.Compare the beauty and comprehensiveness of legends on ancient coins.Addison.
COMPREHENSOR
One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge.[Obs.]When I shall have dispatched this weary pilgrimage, and from atraveler shall come to be a comprehensor, farewell faith and welcomevision. Bp. Hall.
COMPRESS
A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to coverthe dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, tomake due pressure on any part.
COMPRESSED
Flattened lengthwise. Compessed air engine, an engine operatedby the elastic force of compressed air.
COMPRESSED YEAST
A cake yeast made by filtering the cells from the liquid inwhich they are grown, subjecting to heavy pressure, and mixing withstarch or flour.
COMPRESSIBILITY
The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as,the compressibility of elastic fluids.
COMPRESSIBLE
Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrowercompass, as an elastic or spongy substance.
COMPRESSIBLENESS
The quality of being compressible; compressibility.
COMPRESSION
The act of compressing, or state of being compressed."Compression of thought." Johnson.
COMPRESSION PROJECTILE
A projectile constructed so as to take the grooves of a rifleby means of a soft copper band firmly attached near its base or,formerly, by means of an envelope of soft metal. In small arms themodern projectile, having a soft core and harder jacket, is subjectedto compression throughout the entire cylindrical part.
COMPRESSIVE
Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, acompressive force.
COMPRESSOR
Anything which serves to compress; as:(a) (Anat.) A muscle that compresses certain parts.(b) (Surg.) An instrument for compressing an artery (esp., thefemoral artery) or other part.(c) An apparatus for confining or flattening between glass plates anobject to be examined with the microscope; -- called alsocompressorium.(d) (Mach.) A machine for compressing gases; especially, an aircompressor.
COMPRESSURE
Compression.
COMPRINT
To print surreptitiously a work belonging to another. E.Phillips.
COMPRISAL
The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium orepitome.A comprisal . . . and sum of all wickedness. Barrow.
COMPRISE
To comprehend; to include.Comprise much matter in few words. Hocker.Friendship does two souls in one comprise. Roscommon.
COMPROBATE
To agree; to concur. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
COMPROMISER
One who compromises.
COMPROMISSORIAL
Relating to compromise. [R.] Chalmers.
COMPROVINCIAL
Belonging to, or associated in, the same province. [Obs.] -- n.
COMPSOGNATHUS
A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, andremarkable for having several birdlike features.
COMPT
Account; reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Shak.
COMPTE RENDU
A report of an officer or agent.
COMPTER
A counter. [Obs.] Shak.
COMPTIBLE
Accountable; responsible; sensitive. [Obs.]I am very comptible even to the least sinister usage. Shak.
COMPTLY
Neatly. [Obs.] Sherwood.
COMPTOGRAPH
A machine for adding numbers and making a printed record of thesum.
COMPTOMETER
A calculating machine; an arithmometer.
COMPTROL
See Control.
COMPTROLER
A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examinecertify accounts.
COMPULSATIVE
Compulsatory. [R.] Shak.
COMPULSATIVELY
By compulsion. [R.]
COMPULSATORY
Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraininig;resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion. [R.]To recover of us, by strong hand And terms compulsatory, thoseforesaid lands. Shak.
COMPULSION
The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the actof driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint;subjection to force.If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, I would give no man areason upon compulsion. Shak.With what complusion and laborious flight We sunk thus low. Milton.
COMPULSIVE
Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.Religion is . . . inconsistent with all compulsive motives. Sharp.
COMPULSIVELY
By compulsion; by force.
COMPULSORILY
; by force or constraint.
COMPUNCT
Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken. [Obs.]
COMPUNCTIONLESS
Without compunction.
COMPUNCTIOUS
Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attendedwith, or causing, compunction.That no compunctious vistings of nature Shake my fell purpose. Shak.
COMPUNCTIOUSLY
With compunction.
COMPUNCTIVE
Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
COMPURGATION
The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man'sveracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law. SeePurgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.
COMPURGATOR
One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocenceof another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.All they who know me . . . will say they have reason in this matterto be my compurgators. Chillingworth.
COMPURGATORIAL
Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation. "Theircompurgatorial oath." Milman.
COMPUTABLE
Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned.Not easily computable by arithmetic. Sir M. Hale.
COMPUTE
To determine calculation; to reckon; to count.Two days, as we compute the days of heaven. Milton.What's done we partly may compute, But know not what's resisted.Burns.
COMPUTER
One who computes.
COMPUTIST
A computer.
COMRADE
A mate, companion, or associate.And turned my flying comrades to the charge. J. Baillie.I abjure all roofs, and choose . . . To be a comrade with the wolfand owl. Shak.
COMRADERY
The spirit of comradeship; comradeship. [R.]"Certainly", said Dunham, with the comradery of the smoker. W. D.Howells.
COMRADESHIP
The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship.
COMROGUE
A fellow rogue. [Obs.]
COMTISM
Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.
COMTIST
A disciple of Comte; a positivist.
CON
Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negativeside; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it.See Pro.
CONACRE
To underlet a proportion of, for a single crop; -- said of afarm. [Ireland]
CONARIUM
The pineal gland.
CONATION
The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind,whether muscular or psychical.Of conation, in other words, of desire and will. J. S. Mill.
CONATIVE
Of or pertaining to conation.This division of mind into the three great classes of the cognitivefaculties, the feelings, . . . and the exertive or conative powers, .. . was first promulgated by Kant. Sir W. Hamilton.
CONATUS
A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; anattempt; an effort.What conatus could give prickles to the porcupine or hedgehog, or tothe sheep its fleece Paley.
CONCATENATE
To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as thingsdepending on one another.This all things friendly will concatenate. Dr. H. More
CONCATENATION
A series of links united; a series or order of things dependingon each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession.The stoics affirmed a fatal, unchangeable concatenation of causes,reaching even to the illicit acts of man's will. South.A concatenation of explosions. W. Irving.
CONCAUSE
A joint cause. Fotherby.
CONCAVATION
The act of making concave.
CONCAVE
A curved sheath or breasting for a revolving cylinder or roll.
CONCAVED
Bowed in the form of an arch; -- called also arched.
CONCAVENESS
Hollowness; concavity.
CONCAVITY
A concave surface, or the space bounded by it; the state ofbeing concave.
CONCAVO-CONCAVE
Concave or hollow on both sides; double concave.
CONCAVO-CONVEX
Specifically, having such a combination of concave and convexsides as makes the focal axis the shortest line between them. SeeIllust. under Lens.
CONCAVOUS
Concave. Abp. potter.-- Con*ca"vous*ly, adv.
CONCEAL
To hide or withdraw from observation; to cover; to cover orkeep from sight; to prevent the discovery of; to withhold knowledgeof.It is the glory of God to conceal a thing. Prov. xxv. 2.Declare ye among the nations, . . . publish and conceal not. Jer. 1.2.He which finds him shall deserve our thanks, . . . He that concealshim, death. Shak.
CONCEALABLE
Capable of being concealed.
CONCEALED
Hidden; kept from sight; secreted.-- Con*ceal"ed*ly (, adv.-- Con*ceal"ed*ness, n. Concealed weapons (Law), dangerous weaponsso carried on the person as to be knowingly or willfully concealedfrom sight, -- a practice forbidden by statute.
CONCEALER
One who conceals.
CONCEALMENT
Suppression of such facts and circumstances as in justice oughtto be made known. Wharton.
CONCEDE
To yield or make concession.I wished you to concede to America, at a time when she prayedconcession at our feet. Burke.
CONCEIT
To conceive; to imagine. [Archaic]The strong, by conceiting themselves weak, are therebly rendered asinactive . . . as if they really were so. South.One of two bad ways you must conceit me, Either a coward or aflatterer. Shak.
CONCEITEDNESS
The state of being conceited; conceit; vanity. Addison.
CONCEITLESS
Without wit; stupid. [Obs.]Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless. To be seduced by thyflattery Shak.
CONCEIVABLE
Capable of being conceived, imagined, or understood. "Anyconceivable weight." Bp. Wilkins.It is not conceivable that it should be indeed that very person whoseshape and voice it assumed. Atterbury.-- Con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.-- Con*ceiv"a*bly, adv.
CONCEIVER
One who conceives.
CONCELEBRATE
To celebrate together. [Obs.] Holland.
CONCENT
To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a commoncenter; to have a common center.God, in whom all perfections concenter. Bp. Beveridge.
CONCENTRATE
To approach or meet in a common center; to consolidate; as,population tends to concentrate in cities.
CONCENTRATION
The act or process of removing the dress of ore and of reducingthe valuable part to smaller compass, as by currents of air or water.
CONCENTRATIVE
Serving or tending to concentrate; characterized byconcentration.A discrimination is only possible by a concentrative act, or act ofattention. Sir W. Hamilton.
CONCENTRATIVENESS
The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentratingthe intellectual the intellectual powers. Combe.
CONCENTRATOR
An apparatus for the separation of dry comminuted ore, byexposing it to intermittent puffs of air. Knight.
CONCENTRIC
That which has a common center with something else.Its pecular relations to its concentrics. Coleridge.
CONCENTRICALLY
In a concentric manner.
CONCENTRICITY
The state of being concentric.
CONCENTUAL
Possesing harmony; accordant. [R.] Warton.
CONCEPT
An abstract general conception; a notion; a universal.The words conception, concept, notion, should be limited to thethought of what can not be represented in the imagination; as, thethought suggested by a general term. Sir W. Hamilton.
CONCEPTIBILITY
The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness. Cudworth.
CONCEPTIBLE
Capable of being conceived; conceivable. Sir M. Hale.
CONCEPTIONAL
Pertaining to conception.
CONCEPTIONALIST
A conceptualist.
CONCEPTIOUS
Apt to conceive; fruitful. [Obs.] Shak.
CONCEPTIVE
Capable of conceiving. Sir T. Browne
CONCEPTUAL
Pertaining to conception.
CONCEPTUALISM
A theory, intermediate between realism and nominalism, that themind has the power of forming for itself general conceptions ofindividual or single objects. Stewart.
CONCEPTUALIST
One who maintains the theory of conceptualism. Stewart.
CONCERN
To be of importance. [Obs.]Which to deny concerns more than avails. Shak.
CONCERNED
Disturbed; troubled; solicitous; as, to be much concerned forthe safety of a friend.
CONCERNEDLY
In a concerned manner; solicitously; sympathetically.
CONCERNING
Pertaining to; regarding; having relation to; respecting; asregards.I have accepted thee concerning this thing. Gen. xix. 21.The Lord hath spoken good concerning Israel. Num. x. 29.
CONCERT
To act in harmony or conjunction; to form combined plans.The ministers of Denmark were appointed to concert with Talbot. Bp.Burnet
CONCERT OF THE POWERS
An agreement or understanding between the chief Europeanpowers, the United States, and Japan in 1900 to take only jointaction in the Chinese aspect of the Eastern Question.
CONCERTANTE
A concert for two or more principal instruments, withorchestral accompaniment. Also adjectively; as, concertante parts.
CONCERTATION
Strife; contention. [Obs.] Bailey.
CONCERTATIVE
Contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Bailey.
CONCERTED
Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concertedschemes, signals. Concerted piece (Mus.), a composition in parts forseveral voices or instrument, as a trio, a quartet, etc.
CONCERTINA
A small musical imstrument on the principle of the accordion.It is a small elastic box, or bellows, having free reeds on theinside, and keys and handles on the outside of each of the twohexagonal heads.
CONCERTINO
A piece for one or more solo instruments with orchestra; --more concise than the concerto.
CONCERTION
Act of concerting; adjustment. [R.] Young.
CONCERTMEISTER
The head violinist or leader of the strings in an orchestra;the sub-leader of the orchestra; concert master.
CONCERTO
A composition (usually in symphonic form with three movements)in which one instrument (or two or three) stands out in bold reliefagainst the orchestra, or accompaniment, so as to display itsqualities or the performer's skill.
CONCESSION
The beneficiary of a concession or grant.
CONCESSIONARY
Of or pertaining to a concession. -- n.; pl. -ries.
CONCESSIONIST
One who favors concession.
CONCESSIVE
Implying concession; as, a concessive conjunction. Lowth.
CONCESSIVELY
By way of concession.
CONCESSORY
Conceding; permissive.
CONCETTISM
The use of concetti or affected conceits. [R.] C. Kingsley.
CONCETTO
Affected wit; a conceit. Chesterfield.
CONCH
A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to thoseof the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the largepink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs areof the genus Cassis. See Cameo.
CONCHA
The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entireapse.
CONCHAL
Pertaining to the concha, or external ear; as, the conchalcartilage.
CONCHIFER
One of the Conchifera.
CONCHIFERA
That class of Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells; theLamellibranchiata. See Mollusca.
CONCHIFEROUS
Producing or having shells.
CONCHIFORM
Shaped like one half of a bivalve shell; shell-shaped.
CONCHININE
See Quinidine.
CONCHITE
A fossil or petrified conch or shell.
CONCHITIC
Composed of shells; containing many shells.
CONCHO-SPIRAL
A kind of spiral curve found in certain univalve shells.Agassiz.
CONCHOID
A curve, of the fourth degree, first made use of by the Greekgeometer, Nicomedes, who invented it for the purpose of trisecting anangle and duplicating the cube.
CONCHOIDAL
Having elevations or depressions in form like one half of abivalve shell; -- applied principally to a surface produced byfracture.
CONCHOLOGICAL
Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology.
CONCHOLOGIST
One who studies, or is versed in, conchology.
CONCHOLOGY
The science of Mollusca, and of the shells which they form;malacology.
CONCHOMETER
An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of theirspire.
CONCHOMETRY
The art of measuring shells or their curves; conchyliometry.
CONCHYLIOMETRY
Same as Conchometry.
CONCHYLIOUS
Conchylaceous.
CONCIATOR
The person who weighs and proportions the materials to be madeinto glass, and who works and tempers them.
CONCIERGE
One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; adoorkeeper; a janitor, male or female.
CONCILIABLE
A small or private assembly, especially of an ecclesiasticalnature. [Obs.] Bacon.
CONCILIABULE
An obscure ecclesiastical council; a conciliable. Milman.
CONCILIATE
To win ower; to gain from a state of hostility; to gain thegood will or favor of; to make friendly; to mollify; to propitiate;to appease.The rapacity of his father's administration had excited suchuniversal discontent, that it was found expedient to conciliate thenation. Hallam.
CONCILIATION
The act or process of conciliating; the state of beingconciliated.The house has gone further; it has declared conciliation admissibleprevious to any submission on the part of America. Burke.
CONCILIATIVE
Conciliatory. Coleridge.
CONCILIATOR
One who conciliates.
CONCILIATORY
Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating.The only alternative, therefore, was to have recourse to theconciliatory policy. Prescott.
CONCINNATE
To place fitly together; to adapt; to clear. [Obs.] Holland.
CONCINNITY
Internal harmony or fitness; mutual adaptation of parts;elegance; -- used chiefly of style of discourse. [R.]An exact concinnity and eveness of fancy. Howell.
CONCINNOUS
Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant. [R.]The most concinnous and most rotund of proffessors, M. Heyne. DeQuiency.
CONCIONATE
To preach. [Obs.] Lithgow.
CONCIONATOR
A common councilman. [Obs.]
CONCIONATORY
Of or pertaining to preaching or public addresses. [Obs.]Howell.
CONCISE
Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted;-- used of style in writing or speaking.The concise style, which expresseth not enough, but leaves somewhatto be understood. B. Jonson.Where the author is . . . too brief and concise, amplify a little. I.Watts.
CONCISELY
In a concise manner; briefly.
CONCISENESS
The quality of being concise.
CONCISION
A cutting off; a division; a schism; a faction. South.
CONCITATION
The act of stirring up, exciting, or agitating. [Obs.] "Theconcitation of humors." Sir T. Browne.
CONCITE
To excite or stir up. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
CONCLAMATION
An outcry or shout of many together. [R.]Before his funeral conclamation. May (Lucan).
CONCLAVIST
One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal inthe conclave.
CONCLUDENCY
Deduction from premises; inference; conclusion. [Obs.] Sir M.Hale.
CONCLUDENT
Bringing to a close; decisive; conclusive. [Obs.]Arguments highly consequential and concludent to my purpose. Sir M.Hale.
CONCLUDER
One who concludes.
CONCLUDINGLY
Conclusively. [R.] Digby.
CONCLUSIBLE
Demonstrable; determinable. [Obs.] Hammond.
CONCLUSION
The inferred proposition of a syllogism; the necessaryconsequence of the conditions asserted in two related propositionscalled premises. See Syllogism.He granted him both the major and minor, but denied him theconclusion. Addison.
CONCLUSIVE
Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing;putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, aconclusion or decision.Secret reasons . . . equally conclusive for us as they were for them.Rogers.Conclusive evidence (Law), that of which, from its nature, the lawallows no contradiction or explanation.-- Conclusive presumption (Law), an inference which the law makes soperemptorily that it will not allow it to be overthrown by anycontrary proof, however strong.
CONCLUSIVELY
In the way of conclusion; decisively; positively. Burke.
CONCLUSIVENESS
The quality of being conclusive; decisiveness.
CONCLUSORY
Conclusive. [R.]
CONCOCTER
One who concocts.
CONCOCTION
Abatement of a morbid process, as a fever and return to anormal condition. [Obs.]
CONCOCTIVE
Having the power of digesting or ripening; digestive.Hence the concoctive powers, with various art, Subdue the cruderaliments to chyle. J. Armstrong.
CONCOLOR
Of the same color; of uniform color. [R.] "Concolor animals."Sir T. Browne.
CONCOLOROUS
Of the same color throughout.
CONCOMITANT
Accompanying; conjoined; attending.It has pleased our wise Creator to annex to several objects, as alsoto several of our thoughts, a concomitant pleasure. Locke.
CONCOMITANTLY
In company with others; unitedly; concurrently. Bp. pearson.
CONCORD
Agreement of words with one another, in gender, number, person,or case.
CONCORD BUGGY
A kind of buggy having a body with low sides, and side springs.
CONCORDABLE
Capable of according; agreeing; harmonious.
CONCORDANCE
Concord; agreement. [Obs.] Aschlam.
CONCORDANCY
Agreement. W. Montagu.
CONCORDANT
Agreeing; correspondent; harmonious; consonant.Were every one employed in points concordant to their natures,professions, and arts, commonwealths would rise up of themselves. SirT. Browne
CONCORDANTLY
In a concordant manner.
CONCORDIST
The compiler of a concordance.
CONCORPORATE
To unite in one mass or body; to incorporate. [Archaic.] Jer.Taylor.
CONCORPORATION
Union of things in one mass or body. [R.] Dr. H. More.
CONCREATE
To create at the same time.If God did concreate grace with Adam. Jer. Taylor.
CONCREMATION
The act of burning different things together. [Obs.]
CONCREMENT
A growing together; the collection or mass formed byconcretion, or natural union. [Obs.]The concrement of a pebble or flint. Sir M. Hale
CONCRESCENCE
Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition ofparticles. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh.
CONCRESCIBLE
Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state. [Obs.]They formed a . . . fixed concrescible oil. Fourcroy (Trans. ).
CONCRESCIVE
Growing together, or into union; uniting. [R.] Eclec. Rev.
CONCRETE
A term designating both a quality and the subject in which itexists; a concrete term.The concretes "father" and "son" have, or might have, the abstracts"paternity" and "filiety". J. S. Mill.
CONCRETELY
In a concrete manner.
CONCRETENESS
The quality of being concrete.
CONCRETION
A rounded mass or nodule produced by an aggregation of thematerial around a center; as, the calcareous concretions common inbeds of clay.
CONCRETIONAL
Concretionary.
CONCRETIONARY
Pertaining to, or formed by, concretion or aggregation;producing or containing concretions.
CONCRETIVE
Promoting concretion. Sir T. Browne.
CONCRETIVELY
In a concrete manner.
CONCRETURE
A mass formed by concretion. [Obs.] Johnson.
CONCREW
To grow together. [Obs.] Spenser.
CONCRIMINATION
A joint accusation.
CONCUBINACY
The practice of concubinage. [Obs.] Strype.
CONCUBINAGE
A plea, in which it is alleged that the woman suing for dowerwas not lawfully married to the man in whose lands she seeks to beendowed, but that she was his concubine.
CONCUBINAL
Of or pertaining to concubinage.
CONCUBINARIAN
Concubinary.The married and concubinarian, as well as looser clergy. Milman.
CONCUBINARY
Relating to concubinage; living in concubinage.
CONCUBINATE
Concubinage. [Obs.] Johnson.
CONCULCATE
To tread or trample under foot. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu --Con`cul*ca"tion (, n. [Obs.]
CONCUPISCENCE
Sexual lust; morbid carnal passion.Concupiscence like a pestilence walketh in darkness. Horne.
CONCUPISCENT
Having sexual lust; libidinous; lustful; lecherous; salacious.Johnson.
CONCUPISCENTIAL
Relating to concupiscence. [Obs.] Johnson.
CONCUPISCENTIOUS
Concupiscent. [Obs.]
CONCUPISCIBLENESS
The state of being concupiscible. [Obs.]
CONCUPY
Concupiscence.
CONCURRENCY
Concurrence.
CONCURRENT
Meeting in one point.
CONCURRENTLY
With concurrence; unitedly.
CONCURRENTNESS
The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence.
CONCURRING
Agreeing. Concurring figure (Geom.), one which, being laid onanother, exactly meets every part of it, or one which correspondendswith another in all its parts.
CONCUSS
To force (a person) to do something, or give up something, byintimidation; to coerce. Wharton.
CONCUSSATION
A violent shock or agitation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
CONCUSSION
A condition of lowered functional activity, without visiblestructural change, produced in an organ by a shock, as by fall orblow; as, a concussion of the brain.
CONCUSSIVE
Having the power or quality of shaking or agitating. Johnson.
COND
To con, as a ship.
CONDEMN
To doom to be taken for public use, under the right of eminentdomain.
CONDEMNABLE
Worthy of condemnation; blamable; culpable.
CONDEMNATORY
Condemning; containing or imposing condemnation or censure; as,a condemnatory sentence or decree.
CONDEMNER
One who condemns or censures.
CONDENSABILITY
Capability of being condensed.
CONDENSABLE
Capable of being condensed; as, vapor is condensable.
CONDENSATE
Made dense; condensed.Water . . . thickened or condensate. Peacham.
CONDENSATION
The act or process of reducing, by depression of temperature orincrease of pressure, etc., to another and denser form, as gas to thecondition of a liquid or steam to water.
CONDENSATIVE
Having the property of condensing.
CONDENSE
To reduce into another and denser form, as by cold or pressure;as, to condense gas into a liquid form, or steam into water.Condensed milk, milk reduced to the consistence of very thick creamby evaporation (usually with addition of sugar) for preservation andtransportation.-- Condensing engine, a steam engine in which the steam is condensedafter having exerted its force on the piston.
CONDENSER
An apparatus for receiving and condensing the volatile productsof distillation to a liquid or solid form, by cooling.
CONDENSIBLE
Capable of being condensed; as, a gas condensible to a liquidby cold.
CONDER
One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.
CONDESCEND
Condescension. [Obs.]
CONDESCENDINGLY
In a condescending manner. Atterbury.
CONDESCENSION
The act of condescending; voluntary descent from one's rank ordignity in intercourse with an inferior; courtesy toward inferiors.It forbids pride . . . and commands humility, modesty, andcondescension to others. Tillotson.Such a dignity and condescension . . . as are suitable to a superiornature. Addison.
CONDESCENT
An act of condescension. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
CONDIGNITY
Merit, acguired by works, which can claim reward on the scoreof general benevolence.Such a worthiness of condignity, and proper merit of the heavenlyglory, cannot be found in any the best, most perfect, and excellentof created beings. Bp. Bull.
CONDIGNLY
According to merit.
CONDIGNNESS
Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness.
CONDIMENT
Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify thetaste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard;seasoning.As for radish and the like, they are for condiments, and not fornourishment. Bacon.
CONDISCIPLE
A schoolfellow; a fellow-student. [R.]
CONDITE
Preserved; pickled. [Obs.] Burton.
CONDITION
A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its objectto suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principalobligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify adevise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event,which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrenceof which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of anobligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend. Blount.Tomlins. Bouvier. Wharton. Equation of condition. (Math.) See underEquation.-- On or Upon condition (that), used for if in introducingconditional sentences. "Upon condition thou wilt swear to pay himtribute . . . thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him." Shak.-- Conditions of sale, the terms on which it is proposed to sellproperty by auction; also, the instrument containing or expressingthese terms.
CONDITIONAL
Expressing a condition or supposition; as, a conditional word,mode, or tense.A conditional proposition is one which asserts the dependence of onecategorical proposition on another. Whately.The words hypothetical and conditional may be . . . usedsynonymously. J. S. Mill.
CONDITIONALITY
The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation bycertain terms.
CONDITIONALLY
In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions;not absolutely or positively. Shak.
CONDITIONATE
Conditional. [Obs.]Barak's answer is faithful, though conditionate. Bp. Hall.
CONDITIONLY
Conditionally. [Obs.]
CONDITORY
A repository for holding things; a hinding place.
CONDOG
To concur; to agree. [Burlesque]
CONDOLATORY
Expressing condolence. Smart.
CONDOLE
To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; --followed by with.Your friends would have cause to rejoice, rather than condole withyou. Sir W. Temple.
CONDOLENCE
Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief.Their congratulations and their condolences. Steele.A special mission of condolence. Macaulay.
CONDOLER
One who condoles.
CONDONATION
Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of hiswife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, asadultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not berepeated. Bouvier. Wharton.
CONDONE
To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for aviolation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or thewife.
CONDOR
A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphusgryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes.
CONDOTTIERE
A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenthcenturies, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to anyparty in any contest.
CONDUCE
To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable ordesirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.He was sensible how much such a union would conduce to the happinessof both. Macaulay.The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion ofdistemper'd blood. Shak.
CONDUCENT
Conducive; tending.Conducent to the good success of this business. Abp. Laud.
CONDUCIBILITY
The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness. Bp.Wilkins.
CONDUCIBLE
Conducive; tending; contributing. Bacon.All his laws are in themselves conducible to the temporal interest ofthem that observe them. Bentley.
CONDUCIBLENESS
Quality of being conducible.
CONDUCIBLY
In a manner to promote. [R.]
CONDUCIVE
Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.However conducive to the good or our country. Addison.
CONDUCIVENESS
The quality of conducing.
CONDUCT
To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat,light, electricity, etc.
CONDUCTANCE
Conducting power; -- the reciprocal of resistance. A suggestedunit is the mho, the reciprocal of the ohm.
CONDUCTIBLE
Capable of being conducted.
CONDUCTION
Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also,conductivity.[The] communication [of heat] from one body to another when they arein contact, or through a homogenous body from particle to particle,constitutes conduction. Amer. Cyc.
CONDUCTIVE
Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductivetissue of a pistil.The ovarian walls . . . are seen to be distinctly conductive. Goodale(Gray's Bot. ).
CONDUCTIVITY
The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving andtransmitting, as, the conductivity of a nerve. Thermal conductivity(Physics), the quantity of heat that passes in unit time through unitarea of plate whose thickness is unity, when its opposite facesdiffer in temperature by one degree. J. D. Everett.-- Thermometic conductivity (Physics), the thermal conductivity whenthe unit of heat employed is the heat required to raise unit volumeof the substance one degree.
CONDUCTOR
The leader or director of an orchestra or chorus.
CONDUCTORY
Having the property of conducting. [R.]
CONDUCTRESS
A woman who leads or directs; a directress.
CONDUIT
A system of electric traction, esp. for light railways, inwhich the actuating current passes along a wire or rail laid in anunderground conduit, from which the current is "picked up" by a plowor other device fixed to the car or electric locomotive.  HenceConduit railway.
CONDUPLICATE
Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face beingwithin; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or รฆstivation.
CONDUPLICATION
A doubling together or folding; a duplication. [R.]
CONDURANGO
See Cundurango.
CONDURRITE
A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, fromthe Condurra mine in Cornwall, England.
CONDYLAR
Of or pertaining to a condyle. Condylar foramen (Anat.), aformen in front of each condyle of the occipital bone; -- sometimescalled the anterior condylar foramen when a second, or posterior,foramen is present behind the condyle, as often happens in man.
CONDYLE
A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of abone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied alsoto a concave articular surface.
CONDYLOID
Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.
CONDYLOPOD
An arthropod.
CONE
A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; -- called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having avertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by astraight line always passing through that vertical point; a solidhaving a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex.
CONE CLUTCH
A friction clutch with conical bearing surfaces.
CONE PULLEY
A pulley for driving machines, etc., having two or more partsor steps of different diameters; a pulley having a conical shape.
CONE-IN-CONE
Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of manyconcentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind ofstructure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks.
CONE-NOSE
A large hemipterous insect of the family Reduviidรฆ, often foundin houses, esp. in the southern and western United States. It bitesseverely, and is one of the species called kissing bugs. It is alsocalled big bedbug.
CONEFLOWER
Any plant of the genus Rudbeckia; -- so called from the cone-shaped disk of the flower head. Also, any plant of the related generaRatibida and Brauneria, the latter usually known as purpleconeflower.
CONEINE
See Conine.
CONEY
A rabbit. See Cony.
CONFAB
Familiar talk or conversation. [Colloq.]
CONFABULATE
To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.I shall not ask Jean Jaques Rousseau If birds confabulate or no.Cowper.
CONFABULATION
Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation.Friends' confabulations are comfortable at all times, as fire inwinter. Burton.
CONFABULATORY
Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.Weever.
CONFALON
One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents.
CONFARREATION
A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering ofbread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least tenwitnesses.
CONFATED
Fated or decreed with something else. [R.] A. Tucker.
CONFECT
A comfit; a confection. [Obs.]At supper eat a pippin roasted and sweetened with sugar of roses andcaraway confects. Harvey.
CONFECTION
A soft solid made by incorporating a medicinal substance orsubstances with sugar, sirup, or honey.
CONFECTIONARY
A confectioner. [Obs.]He will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks. 1Sam. viii. 13.
CONFECTIONER
A highly refined sugar in impalpable powder, esp. suited toconfectioners' uses.
CONFECTORY
Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats. [Obs.] Beaumont.
CONFECTURE
Same as Confiture. [Obs.]
CONFEDER
To confederate. [Obs.] Sir T. North.
CONFEDERACY
A combination of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act,or to do a lawful act by unlawful means. See Conspiracy.
CONFEDERATE
Of or pertaining to the government of the eleven SouthernStates of the United States which (1860-1865) attempted to establishan independent nation styled the Confederate States of America; as,the Confederate congress; Confederate money.
CONFEDERATER
A confederate.
CONFEDERATIVE
Of or pertaining to a confederation.
CONFEDERATOR
A confederate. Grafton.
CONFER
To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate.Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered. Acts xxv.12.You shall hear us confer of this. Shak.
CONFERENCE
A stated meeting of preachers and others, invested withauthority to take cognizance of ecclesiastical matters.
CONFERENTIAL
Relating to conference. [R.] Clarke.
CONFERRABLE
Capable of being conferred.
CONFERREE
Same as Conferee.
CONFERRER
Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, ofcontiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oakacorn.
CONFERVA
Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae.The word is frequently used in a wider sense.
CONFERVACEOUS
Belonging to the confervae.
CONFERVOID
Like, or related to, the confervae. Loudon.
CONFERVOUS
Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, theconfervae.Yon exiguous pool's confervous scum. O. W. Holmes.
CONFESSANT
One who confesses to a priest. [Obs.] Bacon.
CONFESSARY
One who makes a confession. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
CONFESSEDLY
By confession; without denial. [Written also confessly.]
CONFESSER
One who makes a confession.
CONFESSION
The act of disclosing sins or faults to a priest in order toobtain sacramental absolution.Auricular confession . . . or the private and special confession ofsins to a priest for the purpose of obtaining his absolution. Hallam.
CONFESSIONAL
The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits tohear confessions; often a small structure furnished with a seat forthe priest and with a window or aperture so that the penitent who isoutside may whisper into the priest's ear without being seen by himor heard by others.
CONFESSIONALISM
An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assentto any particular formula of the Christian faith. Shaff.
CONFESSIONALIST
A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession. [R.] Boucher
CONFESSIONARY
A confessional. [Obs.] Johnson.
CONFESSIONIST
One professing a certain faith. Bp. Montagu.
CONFESSORSHIP
The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith.Our duty to contend even to confessorship. J. H. Newman.
CONFESTLY
See Cofessedly.
CONFETTI
Bonbons; sweetmeats; confections; also, plaster or paperimitations of, or substitutes for, bonbons, often used by carnivalrevelers, at weddings, etc.
CONFIDE
To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usuallyfollowed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers.By thy command I rise or fall, In thy protection I confide. Byron.Judge before friendships, then confide till death. Young.
CONFIDENT
See Confidant. South. Dryden.
CONFIDENTIALLY
In confidence; in reliance on secrecy.
CONFIDENTLY
With confidence; with strong assurance; positively.
CONFIDENTNESS
The quality of being confident.
CONFIDER
One who confides.
CONFIDING
That confides; trustful; unsuspicious.-- Con*fid"ing*ly, adv.-- Con*fid"ing*ness, n.
CONFIGURATE
To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure;to agree with a pattern.Known by the name of uniformity; Where pyramids to pyramids relateAnd the whole fabric doth configurate. Jordan.
CONFIGURATION
Relative position or aspect of the planets; the face of thehoroscope, according to the relative positions of the planets at anytime.They [astrologers] undertook . . . to determine the course of a man'scharacter and life from the configuration of the stars at the momentof his birth. Whewell.
CONFIGURE
To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape.Bentley.
CONFINABLE
Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited.Not confinable to any limits. Bp. Hall.
CONFINE
To restrain within limits; to restrict; to limit; to bound; toshut up; to inclose; to keep close.Now let not nature's hand Keep the wild flood confined! let orderdie! Shak.He is to confine himself to the compass of numbers and the slavery ofrhyme. Dryden.To be confined, to be in childbed.
CONFINELESS
Without limitation or end; boundless. Shak.
CONFINER
One who, or that which, limits or restrains.
CONFINITY
Community of limits; contiguity. [R.] Bailey.
CONFIRM
To administer the rite of confirmation to. See Confirmation, 3.Those which are thus confirmed are thereby supposed to be fit foradmission to the sacrament. Hammond.
CONFIRMABLE
That may be confirmed.
CONFIRMANCE
Confirmation. [Obs.]
CONFIRMATION
A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted,through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the fullprivileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the EpiscopalChurch, etc.This ordinance is called confirmation, because they who duly receiveit are confirmed or strengthened for the fulfillment of theirChristian duties, by the grace therein bestowed upon them. Hook.
CONFIRMATIVE
Tending confirm or establish. Sherwood.-- Con*firm"a*tive*ly, adv.
CONFIRMATOR
One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer. Sir T. Browne.
CONFIRMATORY
Serving to confirm; corroborative.A fact confirmatory of the conclusion. I. Taylor.
CONFIRMEDLY
With confirmation.
CONFIRMEDNESS
A fixed state.
CONFIRMEE
One to whom anuthing is confirmed.
CONFIRMER
One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; onewho corroborates. Shak.
CONFIRMINGLY
In a confirming manner.
CONFISCABLE
Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture.
CONFISCATE
Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use;forfeited.Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. Shak.
CONFISCATION
The act or process of taking property or condemning it to betaken, as forfeited to the public use.The confiscations following a subdued rebellion. Hallam.
CONFISCATOR
One who confiscates. Burke.
CONFISCATORY
Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations."Confiscatory and exterminatory periods." Burke.
CONFIT
Same as Comfit. [Obs.]
CONFITENT
One who confesses his sins and faults. [Obs.]
CONFITEOR
A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made.
CONFITURE
The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;adaptation; suitableness. Sir J. Reynolds.If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, thatunion should have been thrice blessed. Motley.
CONFIX
To fix; to fasten. [Obs.]  Shak.
CONFIXURE
Act of fastening. [Obs.]
CONFLAGRANT
Burning together in a common flame. [R.] "The conflagrantmass."  Milton.
CONFLAGRATION
A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; ageneral burning.
CONFLATE
To blow together; to bring together; to collect;  to fusetogether; to join or weld; to consolidate.
CONFLATION
A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or ofmany fires in a foundry. [R.]  Bacon.
CONFLICTING
Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending;contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.
CONFLICTIVE
Tending to conflict; conflicting.  Sir W. Hamilton.
CONFLUXIBILITY
The  tendency of fluids to run together. [R.] Boyle.
CONFLUXIBLE
Inclined to flow or run together. --Con*flux"i*ble*ness, n.
CONFOCAL
Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.
CONFORM
Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.  Bacon.
CONFORMABLENESS
The quality of being conformable; conformability.
CONFORMABLY
With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.
CONFORMANCE
Conformity. [R.]  Marston.
CONFORMATE
Having the same form. [R.]
CONFORMATOR
An apparatus for taking the conformation of anything, as of thehead for fitting a hat, or, in craniometry, finding the largesthorizontal area of the head.
CONFORMER
One who conforms; one who complies with established forms ordoctrines.
CONFORMIST
One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to theChurch of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguishedfrom a dissenter or nonconformist.
CONFORTATION
The act of strengthening. [Obs.]  Bacon.
CONFOUNDEDLY
Extremely; odiously; detestably. [Colloq.] "Confoundedly sick."Goldsmith.
CONFOUNDEDNESS
The state of being confounded.
CONFOUNDER
One who confounds.
CONFRACT
Broken in pieces; severed. [Obs.]
CONFRAGOSE
Broken; uneven. [Obs.] "Confragose cataracts."  Evelyn.
CONFRATERNITY
A society or body of men united for some purpose, or in someprofession; a brotherhood.
CONFRERE
Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate.
CONFRICATION
A rubbing together; friction. [Obs.] Bacon.
CONFRIER
A confrรจre. [Obs.]  Weever.
CONFRONTATION
Act of confronting.  H. Swinburne.
CONFRONTE
Same as Affrontรฉ.
CONFRONTER
One who confronts.
CONFRONTING
dealing with (a person or problem) directly; taking the bull bythe horns.Syn. -- braving, coping with, grappling, tackling.[WordNet 1.5 +PJC]
CONFRONTMENT
The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.
CONFUCIAN
Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopherand teacher. -- n.
CONFUCIANISM
The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples,which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education. Itcan hardly be called a religion, as it does not inculcate the worshipof any god.  S. W. Williams.
CONFUCIANIST
A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.  S. W. Williams.
CONFUS
Confused, disturbed. [Obs.]  Chaucer.
CONFUSABILITY
Capability of being confused.
CONFUSABLE
Capable of being confused.
CONFUSE
Mixed; confounded. [Obs.] Baret.
CONFUSEDLY
In a confused manner.
CONFUSEDNESS
A state of confusion.  Norris.
CONFUSELY
Confusedly; obscurely. [Obs.]
CONFUSIVE
Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.  Bp. Hall.
CONFUTABLE
That may be confuted.
CONFUTANT
One who undertakes to confute.  Milton.
CONFUTATION
The act or process of confuting; refutation.  "For theedification of some and the confutation of others."  Bp. Horne.
CONFUTATIVE
Adapted or designed to confute.  Bp. Warburton
CONFUTE
To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove orshow to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.
CONFUTEMENT
Confutation. [Obs.]  Milton.
CONFUTER
One who confutes or disproves.
CONG
An abbreviation of Congius.
CONGE
To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow orcourtesy.
CONGEABLE
Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable.
CONGEAL
To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; tobecome solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to bechilled.
CONGEALABLE
Capable of being congealed. --Con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.
CONGEALEDNESS
The state of being congealed.  Dr. H.More.
CONGEE
See Congรฉ, Conge. [Obs.]
CONGENER
A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied innature, character, or action.
CONGENERACY
Similarity of origin; affinity. [Obs.]  Dr. H. More.
CONGENEROUS
Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerousdiseases. [Obs.]  Sir T. Browne.
CONGENIALITY
The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;adaptation; suitableness.  Sir J. Reynolds.
CONGENIALIZE
To make congenial. [R.]
CONGENIALLY
In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed.
CONGENIALNESS
Congeniality.
CONGENIOUS
Congeneric. [Obs.]
CONGENITAL
Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one frombirth; born with one; connate; constitutinal; natural; as, acongenital deformity. See Connate.
CONGENITALLY
In a congenital manner.
CONGENITE
Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital. [Obs.]Many conclusions, of moral and intellectual truths, seem . . . to becongenite with us. Sir M. Hale.
CONGER
The conger eel; -- called also congeree. Conger sea (Zoรถl.),the sea eel; a large species of eel (Conger vulgaris), whichsometimes grows to the length of ten feet.
CONGERIES
A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; anaggregation.
CONGEST
To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. thecapillaries) of an organ or part.
CONGESTED
Crowded together. Gray.
CONGESTION
Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., inany locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); localhyperas, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of thelungs.
CONGESTIVE
Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in somepart of the body; as, a congestive fever.
CONGIARY
A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor tothe soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each ina congius. Addison.
CONGIUS
A liquid measure containing about three quarts.
CONGLACIATE
To turn to ice; to freeze. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CONGLACIATION
The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of beingconverted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost. Bacon.
CONGLOBATE
Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, theconglobate [lymphatic] glands; conglobate flowers.
CONGLOBE
To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.Then founded, then conglobed Like things to like. Milton.
CONGLOBULATE
To gather into a small round mass.
CONGLOMERATE
Closely crowded together; densly clustered; as, conglomerateflowers. Gray.
CONGLOMERATION
The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of beingthus collected; collection; accumulation; that which isconglomerated; a mixed mass. Bacon.
CONGLUTIN
A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found inalmonds, rye, wheat, etc.
CONGLUTINANT
Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere;promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of theparts.
CONGLUTINATE
Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance.
CONGLUTINATION
A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacioussubstance; junction; union.Conglutination of parts separated by a wound. Arbuthnot.
CONGLUTINATIVE
Conglutinant.
CONGO GROUP
A group of artificial dyes with an affinity for vegetablefibers, so that no mordant is required. Most of them are azocompounds derived from benzidine or tolidine. Called also benzidinedyes.
CONGO RED
An artificial red dye from which the Congo group received itsname. It is also widely used either in aqueous solution or as testpaper (Congo paper) for the detection of free acid, which turns itblue.
CONGO SNAKE
An amphibian (Amphiuma means) of the order Urodela, found inthe southern United States. See Amphiuma.
CONGRATULANT
Rejoicing together; congratulatory.With like joy Congratulant approached him. Milton.
CONGRATULATE
To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on accountof some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to.It is the king's most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulatethe princess at her pavilion. Shak.To congratulate one's self, to rejoice; to feel satisfaction; toconsider one's self happy or fortunate.
CONGRATULATION
The act of congratulating; an expression of sympatheticpleasure.With infinite congratulations for our safe arrival. Dr. J. Scott.
CONGRATULATOR
One who offers congratulation. Milton.
CONGRATULATORY
Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter.
CONGREE
To agree. [bs.] Shak.
CONGREET
To salute mutually. [Obs.]
CONGREGATE
Collected; compact; close. [R.] Bacon.
CONGREGATION
The whole body of the Jewish people; -- called alsoCongregation of the Lord.It is a sin offering for the congregation. Lev. iv. 21.
CONGREGATIONALIST
One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one whoholds to Congregationalism.
CONGRESSION
A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in adispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse. [R.] Jer.Taylor.
CONGRESSIONAL
Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress ofthe United States; as, congressional debates.Congressional and official labor. E. Everett.Congressional District, one of the divisions into which a State isperiodically divided (according to population), each of which isentitled to elect a Representative to the Congress of the UnitedStates.
CONGRESSIVE
Encountering, or coming together. Sir T. Browne.
CONGRESSMAN
A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of theHouse of Representatives.
CONGREVE ROCKET
See under Rocket.
CONGRUE
To agree; to be suitable. [Obs.] Shak.
CONGRUENCE
Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency.Holland.
CONGRUENCY
Congruence. Congruency of lines. (Geom.) See Complex of lines,under Complex, n.
CONGRUENT
Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.The congruent and harmonious fitting of parts in a sentence. B.Jonson.Congruent figures (Geom.), concurring figures.
CONGRUISM
See Congruity.
CONGRUITY
Coincidence, as that of lines or figures laid over one another.
CONGRUOUS
Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious;correspondent; consistent.Not congruous to the nature of epic poetry. Blair.It is no ways congruous that God should be always frightening meninto an acknowledgment of the truth. Atterbury.
CONGRUOUSLY
In a congruous manner.
CONHYDRINE
A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock(Conium maculatum). It is a white crystalline substance, C8H17NO,easily convertible into conine.
CONIA
Same as Conine.
CONIC
A conic section.
CONICALITY
Conicalness.
CONICALLY
In the form of a cone.
CONICALNESS
State or quality of being conical.
CONICO-
A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as,conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico-hemispherical; conico-subulate.
CONICOID
Same as Conoidal.
CONIDIUM
A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi,and often containing zoรถspores.
CONIFER
A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae,which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew.
CONIFERIN
A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferoustrees as a white crystalline substance.
CONIFORM
Cone-shaped; conical.
CONIINE
See Conine.
CONIMENE
Same as Olibene.
CONINE
A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in thehemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N,of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as aderivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. Itoccasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called alsoconiine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2.
CONIROSTER
One of the Conirostres.
CONIROSTRAL
Belonging to the Conirostres.
CONIROSTRES
A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strongconical bill, as the finches.
CONISOR
See Cognizor.
CONISTRA
Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among theGreeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinklingthe wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself. Hence, a part of theorchestra of the Greek theater.
CONITE
A magnesian variety of dolomite.
CONIUM
A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferousplants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves.
CONJECT
To throw together, or to throw. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu.
CONJECTOR
One who guesses or conjectures. [Obs.]A great conjector at other men by their writings. Milton.
CONJECTURABLE
Capable of being conjectured or guessed.
CONJECTURAL
Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at;undetermined; doubtful.And mak'st conjectural fears to come into me. Shak.A slight expense of conjectural analogy. Hugh Miller.Who or what such editor may be, must remain conjectural. Carlyle.
CONJECTURALIST
A conjecturer. [R.] Month. rev.
CONJECTURALLY
That which depends upon guess; guesswork. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
CONJECTURE
An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptiveevidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.He [Herodotus] would thus have corrected his first loose conjectureby a real study of nature. Whewell.Conjectures, fancies, built on nothing firm. Milton.
CONJECTURER
One who conjectures. Hobbes.
CONJOIN
To join together; to unite.The English army, that divided was Into two parties, is now conjoinedin one. Shak.If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not beconjoined. Shak.Let that which he learns next be nearly conjoined with what he knowsalready. Locke.
CONJOINED
Joined together or touching.
CONJOINT
United; connected; associated. "Influence conjoint." Glover.Conjoint degrees (Mus.), two notes which follow each otherimmediately in the order of the scale, as ut and re. Johnson.Conjoint tetrachords (Mus.), two tetrachords or fourths, where thesame note is the highest of one and the lowest of the other; -- alsowritten conjunct.
CONJOINTLY
In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together. Sir T.Browne.
CONJOINTNESS
The qquality of being conjoint.
CONJUBILANT
Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together. [R.] Neale.
CONJUGAL
Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriagestate or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial. "Conjugalaffection." Milton.
CONJUGALITY
The conjugal state; sexual intercourse. [R.] Milton.
CONJUGALLY
In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially.
CONJUGATE
In single pairs; coupled.
CONJUGATION
A kind of sexual union; -- applied to a blending of thecontents of two or more cells or individuals in some plants and loweranimals, by which new spores or germs are developed.
CONJUGATIONAL
relating to conjugation. Ellis.
CONJUGIAL
Conjugal. [R.] Swedenborg.
CONJUGIUM
The marriage tie.
CONJUNCT
Same as Conjoined.
CONJUNCTION
The meeting of two or more stars or planets in the same degreeof the zodiac; as, the conjunction of the moon with the sun, or ofJupiter and Saturn. See the Note under Aspect, n., 6.
CONJUNCTIONAL
Relating to a conjunction.
CONJUNCTIVA
The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of theball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctivalmembrance.
CONJUNCTIVAL
Of or pertaining to the conjunctiva.
CONJUNCTIVELY
In conjunction or union; together. Sir T. Browne.
CONJUNCTIVENESS
The state or quality of being conjunctive. Johnson.
CONJUNCTIVITIS
Inflammation of the conjunctiva.
CONJUNCTLY
In union; conjointly; unitedly; together. Sir W. Hamilton.
CONJURATOR
One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath withothers; a compurgator. Burrill.
CONJURE
To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; toimplore earnestly; to adjure.I conjure you, let him know, Whate'er was done against him, Cato didit. Addison.
CONJUREMENT
Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty. [Obs.] Milton.
CONJURER
One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in asolemn manner.
CONJUROR
One bound by a common cath with others. [Obs.]
CONJURY
The practice of magic; enchantment. Motley.
CONN
See Con, to direct a ship.
CONNASCENT
Born together; produced at the same time. Craig.
CONNATE
Congenitally united; growing from one base, or united at theirbases; united into one body; as, connate leaves or athers. SeeIllust. of Connate-perfoliate.
CONNATE-PERFOLIATE
Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broadfoliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; --applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset.
CONNATION
Connection by birth; natural union. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
CONNATURALITY
Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.[R.]A congruity and connaturality between them. Sir M. Hale.
CONNATURALIZE
To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt. [Obs.]Dr. J. Scott.
CONNATURALLY
By the act of nature; originally; from birth. Sir M. Hale.
CONNATURALNESS
Participation of the same nature; natural union. I. Walton.
CONNATURE
Participation in a common nature or character. [R.]Connature was defined as likeness in kind between either two changesin consciousness, or two states of consciousness. H. Spencer.
CONNECT
To join, unite, or cohere; to have a close relation; as, oneline of railroad connects with another; one argument connect withanother.
CONNECTEDLY
In a connected manner.
CONNECTIVE
Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.Connection tissue (Anat.) See Conjunctive tissue, under Conjunctive.
CONNECTIVELY
In connjunction; jointly.
CONNECTOR
One who, or that which, connects; as:(a) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes inpneumatic experiments.(b) A device for holding two parts of an electrical conductor incontact.
CONNER
A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the relatedAmerican cunner. See Cunner.
CONNEX
To connect. Sir M. Hale.
CONNEXION
Connection. See Connection.
CONNEXIVE
See Connective.
CONNING TOWER
The shotproof pilot house of a war vessel.
CONNIVANCE
Corrupt or guilty assent to wrongdoing, not involving actualparticipation in, but knowledge of, and failure to prevent or opposeit.
CONNIVE
To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see. [R. &Obs.] "Divorces were not connived only, but with eye open allowed."Milton.
CONNIVENCY
Connivance. [Obs.]
CONNIVENT
Brought close together; arched inward so that the points meet;converging; in close contact; as, the connivent petals of a flower,wings of an insect, or folds of membrane in the human system, etc.
CONNIVER
One who connives.
CONNOISSEUR
One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; acritical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts.The connoisseur is "one who knows," as opposed to the dilettant, whoonly "thinks he knows." Fairholt.
CONNOISSEURSHIP
State of being a connoisseur.
CONNOTATE
To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional;to include; to imply. Hammond.
CONNOTATION
The act of connoting; a making known or designating somethingadditional; implication of something more than is asserted.
CONNOTATIVE
Implying an attribute. See Connote. Connotative term, one whichdenotes a subject and implies an attribute. J. S. Mill.
CONNOTATIVELY
In a connotative manner; expressing connotation.
CONNOTE
To imply as an attribute.The word "white" denotes all white things, as snow, paper, the foamof the sea, etc., and ipmlies, or as it was termed by the schoolmen,connotes, the attribute "whiteness." J. S. Mill.
CONNUBIAL
Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal;nuptial.Nor Eve the rites Mysterious of connubial love refused. Milton.Kind, connubial tenderness. Goldsmith.
CONNUBIALITY
The quality of being connubial; something characteristics ofthe conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness.Some connubialities which had begun to pass between Mr. and Mrs. B.Dickens.
CONNUMERATION
A reckoning together. [R.] Porson.
CONNUSANCE
See Cognizance. [Obs.]
CONNUSANT
See Cognizant. [Obs.]
CONNUSOR
See Cognizor. [Obs.]
CONNUTRITIOUS
Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food.[Obs.] Crabb.
CONNY
Brave; fine; canny. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
CONODONT
A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially incarboniferous rocks. Such fossils are supposed by some to be theteeth of marsipobranch fishes, but they are probably the jaws ofannelids.
CONOID
, Resembling a cone; conoidal.
CONOIDAL
Nearly, but not exactly, conical. Lindley.
CONOMINEE
One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee.Kirby.
CONQUADRATE
To bring into a square. [R.] Ash.
CONQUASSATE
To shake; to agitate. [Obs.] Harvey.-- Con`quas*sa"tion, n. [Obs.]
CONQUER
To gain the victory; to overcome; to prevail.He went forth conquering and to conquer. Rev. vi. 2.The champions resolved to conquer or to die. Waller.
CONQUERABLE
Capable of being conquered or subdued. South.-- Con"quer*a*ble*ness, n.
CONQUERESS
A woman who conquers. Fairfax.
CONQUEROR
One who conquers. The Conqueror (Eng. Hist.). William theNorman (1027-1067) who invaded England, defeated Harold in the battleof Hastings, and was crowned king, in 1066.
CONQUEST
The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance;acquisition. Blackstone.
CONQUIAN
A game for two, played with 40 cards, in which each playertries to form three or four of a kind or sequences.
CONSANGUINEAL
Of the same blood; related by birth. Sir T. Browne.
CONSANGUINED
Of kin blood; related. [R.] Johnson.
CONSANGUINEOUS
Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the sameparent or ancestor. Shak.
CONSANGUINITY
The relation of person by blood, is distinction from affinityor relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, linealconsanguinity; collateral consanguinity.Invoking aid by the ties of consanguinity. Prescott.
CONSARCINATION
A patching together; patchwork. [Obs.] Bailey.
CONSCIENCED
Having a conscience. [R.] "Soft-conscienced men." Shak.
CONSCIENCELESS
Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.Conscienceless and wicked patrons. Hookre.
CONSCIENT
Conscious. [R.] Bacon.
CONSCIENTIOUSLY
In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence;faithfully; accurately; completely.
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS
The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to thedictates of conscience.
CONSCIONABLE
Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just.Let my debtors have conscionable satisfaction. Sir H. Wotton.
CONSCIONABLENESS
The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness. Johnson.
CONSCIONABLY
Reasonably; justly.
CONSCIOUSLY
In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mentaloperations or actions.
CONSCRIBE
To enroll; to enlist. [Obs.] E. Hall.
CONSCRIPT
Enrolled; written; registered. Conscript fathers (Rom. Antiq.),the senators of ancient Rome. When certain new senators were firstenrolled with the "fathers" the body was called Patres et Conscripti;afterward all were called Patres conscripti.
CONSCRIPTION
Belonging to, or of the nature of, a conspiration.
CONSECRATE
Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred.They were assembled in that consecrate place. Bacon.
CONSECRATER
Consecrator.
CONSECRATION
The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of beingconsecrated; dedication.Until the days of your consecration be at an end. Lev. viii. 33.Consecration makes not a place sacred, but only solemny declares itso. South.
CONSECRATOR
One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which aperson or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes. [Writtenalso consecrater.]
CONSECRATORY
Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.The consecratory prayer. Bp. Burnet.
CONSECTANEOUS
Following as a matter of course. Blount.
CONSECTARY
Following by consequence; consequent; deducible. [R.]"Consectary impieties." Sir T. Browne.
CONSECUTE
To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.]Bp. Burnet.
CONSECUTIVE
Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallelprogressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutivefifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden. Consecutivechords (Mus.), chords of the same kind suceeding one another withoutinterruption.
CONSECUTIVELY
In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively.
CONSECUTIVENESS
The state or quality of being consecutive.
CONSENSION
Agreement; accord. Bentley.
CONSENSUAL
Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or moreparties.
CONSENSUS
Agreement; accord; consent.That traditional consensus of society which we call public opinion.Tylor.
CONSENT
To grant; to allow; to assent to; to admit. [Obs.]Interpreters . . . will not consent it to be a true story. Milton.
CONSENTANEITY
Mutual agreement. [R.]
CONSENTANEOUS
Consistent; agreeable; suitable; accordant to; harmonious;concurrent.A good law and consentaneous to reason. Howell.-- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ness, n.
CONSENTANT
Consenting. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CONSENTER
One who consents.
CONSENTIENT
Agreeing in mind; accordant.The consentient judgment of the church. Bp. Pearson.
CONSENTINGLY
With consent; in a compliant manner. Jer. Taylor.
CONSEQUENCE
A proposition collected from the agreement of other previouspropositions; any conclusion which results from reason or argument;inference.
CONSEQUENCING
Drawing inference. [R.] Milton.
CONSEQUENT
Following by necessary inference or rational deduction; as, aproposition consequent to other propositions. Consequent points,Consequent poles (Magnetism), a number of poles distributed undercertain conditions, along the axis of a magnetized steel bar, whichregularly has but the two poles at the extremities.
CONSEQUENTIALNESS
The quality of being consequential.
CONSEQUENTLY
By consequence; by natural or logical sequence or connection.
CONSERTION
Junction; adaptation [R.]Consertion of design, how exquisite. Young.
CONSERVABLE
Capable of being preserved from decay or injury.
CONSERVANCY
Conservation, as from injury, defilement, or irregular use.[An act was] passed in 1866, for vesting in the Conservators of theRiver Thames the conservancy of the Thames and Isis. Mozley & W.
CONSERVANT
Having the power or quality of conservation.
CONSERVATION
The act of preserving, guarding, or protecting; the keeping (ofa thing) in a safe or entire state; preservation.A step necessary for the conservation of Protestantism. Hallam.A state without the means of some change is without the means of itsconservation. Burke.Conservation of areas (Astron.), the principle that the radius vectordrawn from a planet to the sun sweeps over equal areas in equaltimes.-- Conservation of energy, or Conservation of force (Mech.), theprinciple that the total energy of any material system is a quantitywhich can neither be increased nor diminished by any action betweenthe parts of the system, though it may be transformed into any of theforms of which energy is susceptible. Clerk Maxwell.
CONSERVATIONAL
Tending to conserve; preservative.
CONSERVATISM
The disposition and tendency to preserve what is established;opposition to change; the habit of mind; or conduct, of aconservative.
CONSERVATIVE
A member of the Conservative party.
CONSERVATIVENESS
The quality of being conservative.
CONSERVATOIRE
A public place of instruction in any special branch, esp. musicand the arts. [See Conservatory, 3].
CONSERVATORY
Having the quality of preserving from loss, decay, or injury.
CONSERVATRIX
A woman who preserves from loss, injury, etc.
CONSERVE
A medicinal confection made of freshly gathered vegetablesubstances mixed with finely powdered refined sugar. See Confection.
CONSERVER
One who conserves.
CONSIDERABLENESS
Worthiness of consideration; dignity; value; size; amount.
CONSIDERABLY
In a manner or to a degree not trifling or unimportant;greatly; much.The breeds . . . differ considerably from each other. Darwin.
CONSIDERANCE
Act of considering; consideration. [Obs.] Shak.
CONSIDERATION
The cause which moves a contracting party to enter into anagreement; the material cause of a contract; the price of astripulation; compensation; equivalent. Bouvier.
CONSIDERATIVE
Considerate; careful; thoughtful. [Archaic]I love to be considerative. B. Jonson.
CONSIDERATOR
One who considers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CONSIDERER
One who considers; a man of reflection; a thinker. Milton.
CONSIDERINGLY
With consideration or deliberation.
CONSIGN
To send or address (by bill of lading or otherwise) to an agentor correspondent in another place, to be cared for or sold, or forthe use of such correspondent; as, to cosign a cargo or a ship; toset apart.
CONSIGNATARY
A consignee. [Obs.] Jenkins.
CONSIGNATORY
One of several that jointly sign a written instrument, as atreaty. Fallows.
CONSIGNATURE
Joint signature. [R.] Colgrave.
CONSIGNEE
The person to whom goods or other things are consigned; afactor; -- correlative to consignor.Consigner and consignee are used by merchants to express generallythe shipper of merchandise, and the person to whom it is addressed,by bill of lading or otherwise. De Colange.
CONSIGNER
One who consigns. See Consignor.
CONSIGNIFICANT
Having joint or equal signification; synonymous. [R.] Spelman.
CONSIGNIFICATION
Joint signification. [R.]
CONSIGNIFICATIVE
Consignificant; jointly significate. [R.]
CONSIGNIFY
To signify or denote in combination with something else.The cipher . . . only serves to connote and consignify, and to changethe value or the figures. Horne Tooke.
CONSIGNMENT
The act of consigning or sending property to an agent orcorrespondent in another place, as for care, sale, etc.
CONSIGNOR
One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.[Written also consigner.]
CONSILIENCE
Act of concurring; coincidence; concurrence.The consilience of inductions takes place when one class of factscoincides with an induction obtained from another different class.Whewell.
CONSISTENTLY
In a consistent manner.
CONSISTORIAL
Of or pertaining to a consistory. "Consistorial laws." Hooker."Consistorial courts." Bp. Hoadley.
CONSISTORIAN
Pertaining to a Presbyterian consistory; -- a contemptuous termof 17th century controversy.You fall next on the consistorian schismatics; for so you callPresbyterians. Milton.
CONSISTORY
The spiritual court of a diocesan bishop held before hischancellor or commissioner in his cathedral church or elsewhere.Hook.
CONSOCIATE
An associate; an accomplice. [Archaic] "Wicked consociates."Bp. Hall.
CONSOCIATIONAL
Of or pertaining to a consociation. [U.S.]
CONSOL
A consolidated annuity (see Consols); -- chiefly in combinationor attributively.
CONSOLABLE
Capable of receiving consolation.
CONSOLATE
To console; to comfort. [Obs.] Shak.
CONSOLATION
The act of consoling; the state of being consoled; allevationof misery or distress of mind; refreshment of spirit; comfort; thatwhich consoles or comforts the spirit.Against such cruelties With inward consolations recompensed. Milton.Are the consolations of God small with thee Job xv. 11.
CONSOLATO DEL MARE
A collection of maritime laws of disputed origin, supposed tohave been first published at Barcelona early in the 14th century. Ithas formed the basis of most of the subsequent collections ofmaritime laws. Kent. Bouvier.
CONSOLATOR
One who consoles or comforts. Johnson.
CONSOLATORY
Of a consoling or comforting nature.The punishment of tyrants is a noble and awful act of justice; and ithas with truth been said to be consolatory to the human mind. Burke.
CONSOLE
To cheer in distress or depression; to alleviate the grief andraise the spirits of; to relieve; to comfort; to soothe.And empty heads console with empty sound. Pope.I am much consoled by the reflection that the religion of Christ hasbeen attacked in vain by all the wits and philosophers, and itstriumph has been complete. P. Henry.
CONSOLER
One who gives consolation.
CONSOLIDANT
Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality ofconsolidating or making firm.
CONSOLIDATE
Formed into a solid mass; made firm; consolidated. [R.]A gentleman [should learn to ride] while he is tender and the brawnsand sinews of his thighs not fully consolidate. Elyot.
CONSOLIDATED
Having a small surface in proportion to bulk, as in the cactus.Consolidated plants are evidently adapted and designed for very dryregions; in such only they are found. Gray.The Consolidated Fund, a British fund formed by consolidating (in1787) three public funds (the Aggregate Fund, the General Fund, andthe South Sea Fund). In 1816, the larger part of the revenues ofGreat Britian and Ireland was assigned to what has been known as theConsolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, out of which are paid theinterest of the national debt, the salaries of the civil list, etc.
CONSOLIDATION
To organic cohesion of different circled in a flower; adnation.
CONSOLIDATIVE
Tending or having power to consolidate; healing.
CONSOLING
Adapted to console or comfort; cheering; as, this is consolingnews.
CONSOLS
The leading British funded government security.
CONSOMME
A clear soup or bouillion boiled down so as to be very rich.
CONSONANT
harmonizing together; accordant; as, consonant tones, consonantchords.
CONSONANTAL
,
CONSONANTIZE
To change into, or use as, a consonant. "The vowel isconsonantized, that is, made closer in position." Peile.
CONSONANTLY
In a consonant, consistent, or congruous manner; agreeably.
CONSONANTNESS
The quality or condition of being consonant, agreeable, orconsistent.
CONSONOUS
Agreeing in sound; symphonious.
CONSOPIATION
The act of sleeping, or of lulling, to sleep. [Obs.] Pope.
CONSOPITE
Lulled to sleep. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
CONSORT
A ship keeping company with another.
CONSORTABLE
Suitable for association or companionship. [Obs.] Sir H.Wotton.
CONSORTION
Fellowship; association; companionship. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CONSORTSHIP
The condition of a consort; fellowship; partnership. Hammond.
CONSOUND
A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera,esp. the comfrey.
CONSPECIFIC
Of the same species.
CONSPECTUITY
The faculty of seeing; sight; eye.
CONSPECTUS
A general sketch or outline of a subject; a synopsis; anepitome.
CONSPERSION
The act of sprinkling. [Obs.]The conspersion washing the doorposts. Jer. Taylor.
CONSPICUITY
The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness;conspicuosness. [R.] Chapman.
CONSPIRACY
An agreement, manifesting itself in words or deeds, by whichtwo or more persons confederate to do an unlawful act, or to useunlawful to do an act which is lawful; confederacy.
CONSPIRANT
Engaging in a plot to commit a crime; conspiring. [Obs.] Shak.
CONSPIRATION
Agreement or concurrence for some end or purpose; conspiracy.[R.]As soon as it was day, certain Jews made a conspiration. Udall.In our natural body every part has a nacassary sympathy with everyother, and all together form, by their harmonious onspiration, ahealthy whole. Sir W. Hamilton.
CONSPIRATOR
One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter. 2 Sam. xv. 31.
CONSPIRE
To plot; to plan; to combine for.Angry clouds conspire your overthrow. Bp. Hall.
CONSPIRER
One who conspires; a conspirator.
CONSPIRINGLY
In the manner of a conspirator; by conspiracy. Milton.
CONSPISSATION
A making thick or viscous; thickness; inspissation. [R.] Dr. H.More.
CONSPURCATE
To pollute; to defile. [Obs.] Cockeram.
CONSPURCATION
This act of defiling; defilement; pollution. Bp. Hall.
CONSTABLE
An officer of the peace having power as a conservator of thepublic peace, and bound to exeute the warrants of judicial offiers.Bouvier.
CONSTABLESHIP
The office or functions of a constable.
CONSTABLESS
The wife of a constable. [Obs.]
CONSTABLEWICK
The district to which a constable's power is limited. [Obs.]Sir M. Hale.
CONSTABULARY
Of or pertaining to constables; consisting of constables.
CONSTABULATORY
A constabulary. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.
CONSTANT
Remaining unchanged or invariable, as a quantity, forc, law,etc.
CONSTANTIA
A superior wine, white and red, from Constantia, in CapeColony.
CONSTANTLY
With constancy; steadily; continually; perseveringly; withoutcessation; uniformly.But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Acts. xii. 15.
CONSTAT
A certificate showing what appears upon record touching amatter in question.
CONSTATE
To ascertain; to verify; to establish; to prove. F. P. Cobbe.
CONSTELLATE
To join luster; to shine with united radiance, or one generallight. [R.]The several things which engage our affections . . . shine forth andconstellate in God. Boule.
CONSTERNATION
Amazement or horror that confounds the faculties, andincapacitates for refletion; terror, combined with amaxement; dismay.The chiefs around, In silence wrapped, in onsternation downed. Attendthe stern reply. Pope.
CONSTIPATE
To render costive; to cause constipation in.
CONSTITUENCY
A body of constituents, as the body of citizens or voters in arepresentative district.
CONSTITUENT
A person who appoints another to act for him as attorney infact. Burrill.
CONSTITUTE
An established law. [Obs.] T. Preston.
CONSTITUTER
One who constitutes or appoints.
CONSTITUTIONAL
A walk or other exercise taken for one's health orconstitution. [Colloq.] Thackeray.The men trudged diurnal constitutionals along the different roads.Compton Reade.
CONSTITUTIONALISM
The theory, principles, or authority of constitutionalgovernment; attachment or adherene to a constitution orconstitutional government. Carlyle.
CONSTITUTIONALIST
One who advocates a constitutional form of government; aconstitutionalist.
CONSTITUTIONIST
One who adheres to the constitution of the country.Bolingbroke.
CONSTITUTIVELY
In a constitutive manner.
CONSTRAINABLE
Capable of being constrained; liable to constraint, or torestraint. Hooker.
CONSTRAINED
Marked by constraint; not free; not voluntary; embarrassed; as,a constrained manner; a constrained tone.
CONSTRAINEDLY
By constraint or compulsion; in a constrained manner. Hooker.
CONSTRAINER
One who constrains.
CONSTRAINT
The act of constraining, or the state of being constrained;that which compels to, or restrains from, action; compulsion;restraint; necessity.Long imprisonment and hard constraint. Spenser.Not by constraint, but bDryden.
CONSTRAINTIVE
Constraining; compulsory. [R.] "Any constraintive vow." R.Carew.
CONSTRICT
To draw together; to render narrower or smaller; to bind; tocramp; to contract or ause to shrink.Such things as constrict the fibers. Arbuthnot.Membranous organs inclosing a cavity which their contractionconstrict. Todd & Bowman.
CONSTRICTED
Contracted or compressed so as to be smaller in certain placesor parts than in others.
CONSTRICTIVE
Serving or tending to bind or constrict.
CONSTRICTOR
A muscle which contracts or closes an orifice, or whichcompresses an organ; a sphincter.
CONSTRINGE
To dawn together; to contract; to force to contract itself; toconstrict; to cause to shrink. [R.]Strong liquors . . . intoxicate, constringe, harden the fibers, andcoagulate the fluids. Arbuthnot.
CONSTRINGENT
Having the quality of contracting, binding, or compressing.Thomson.
CONSTRUCT
Formed by, or relating to, construction, interpretation, orinference. Construct form or state (Heb. Gram.), that of a noun usedbefore another which has the genitive relation to it.
CONSTRUCTER
One who, or that which, constructs or frames.
CONSTRUCTION
The arrangement and connection of words in a sentence;syntactical arrangement.Some particles . . . in certain constructions have the sense of awhole sentence contained in them. Locke.
CONSTRUCTIONAL
Pertaining to, or deduced from, construction or interpretation.
CONSTRUCTIONIST
One who puts a certain construction upon some writing orinstrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strictconstructionist; a broad constructionist.
CONSTRUCTIVELY
In a constructive manner; by construction or inference.A neutral must have notice of a blockade, either actually by a formalinformation, or constructively by notice to his government. Kent.
CONSTRUCTIVENESS
The faculty which enables one to construct, as in mechanical,artistic, or literary matters.
CONSTRUCTOR
A constructer.
CONSTRUCTURE
That which is constructed or formed; an edifice; a fabric.[Obs.]
CONSTUPRATE
To ravish; to debauch. Burton.
CONSTUPRATION
The act of ravishing; violation; defilement. Bp. Hall.
CONSUBSTANTIAL
Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance oressence; coessential.Christ Jesus . . . coeternal and consubstantial with the Father andwith the Holy Ghost. Foxe.
CONSUBSTANTIALISM
The doctrine of consubstantiation.
CONSUBSTANTIALIST
One who believes in consubstantiation. Barrow.
CONSUBSTANTIALITY
Participation of the same nature; coexistence in the samesubstance. "His [the Son's] . . . consubstantiality with the Father."Hammend.
CONSUBSTANTIALLY
In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance ornature.
CONSUBSTANTIATE
To cause to unite, or to regard as united, in one commonsubstance or nature. [R.]His soul must be consubstantiated with reason. Jer. Taylor.
CONSUBSTANTIATION
The actual, substantial presence of the body of Christ with thebread and wine of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; impanation; --opposed to transubstantiation.
CONSUETUDE
Custom, habit; usage. [R.]To observe this consuetude or law. Barnes.
CONSUETUDINAL
According to custom; customary; usual. [R.]
CONSUETUDINARY
Customary.
CONSUL
One of the two chief magistrates of the republic.
CONSULAGE
A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of theirconnerce by means of a consul in a foreign place.
CONSULAR
Of or pertaining to a consul; performing the duties of aconsul; as, consular power; consular dignity; consular officers.
CONSULARY
Consular. [Obs.] Holland.
CONSULT
To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take consel; todeliberate together; to confer.Let us consult upon to-morrow's business. Shak.All the laws of England have been made by the kings England,consulting with the nobility and commons. Hobbes.
CONSULTARY
Formed by consultation; resulting from conference. Consultaryresponse (Law), the opinion of a court on a special case. Wharton.
CONSULTATIVE
Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right ofconference. "A consultative . . . power." Abp. Bramhall.
CONSULTATORY
Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory. Bancroft.
CONSULTER
One who consults, or asks counsel or information.
CONSULTING
That consults. Consulting physician (Med.), a physician whoconsults with the attending practitioner regarding any case ofdisease.
CONSULTIVE
Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate;consultative.He that remains in the grace of God sins not by any deliberative,consultive, knowing act. Jer. Taylor.
CONSUMABLE
Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated,wasted, or spent. "Consumable commodities." Locke.
CONSUME
To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire;to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour.If he were putting to my house the brand That shall consume it. Shak.Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth norrust doth consume. Matt. vi. 20 (Rev. Ver. ).Let me alone . . . that I may consume them. Ex. xxxii. 10.
CONSUMEDLY
Excessively. [Low]He's so consumedly pround of it. Thackeray.
CONSUMER
One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food.
CONSUMINGLY
In a consuming manner.
CONSUMMATE
Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality;complete; perfect. "A man of perfect and consummate virtue." Addison.The little band held the post with consummate tenacity. Motley
CONSUMMATELY
In a consummate manner; completely. T. Warton.
CONSUMMATION
The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated;completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the worldor of life)."Tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. Shak.From its original to its consummation. Addison.Quiet consummation have, And renownShak.Consummation of marrige, completion of the connubial relation byactual cohabition.
CONSUMMATIVE
Serving to consummate; completing. "The final, the consummativeprocedure of philosophy." Sir W. Hamilton.
CONSUMPTION
A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form ofwasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough,spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- calledalso pulmonary consumption. Consumption of the bowels (Med.),inflammation and ulceration of the intestines from tuberculardisease.
CONSUMPTIVE
Affected with, or inclined to, consumption.The lean, consumptive wench, with coughs decayed. Dryden.
CONSUMPTIVELY
In a way tending to or indication consumption. Beddoes.
CONSUMPTIVENESS
A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption.
CONTABESCENT
Wasting away gradually. Darwin. - Con*ta*bes"cence, n.
CONTACT
The property of two curves, or surfaces, which meet, and at thepoint of meeting have a common direction.
CONTACTION
Act of touching. [Obs.]
CONTAGION
The transmission of a disease from one person to another, bydirect or indirect contact.
CONTAGIONED
Affected by contagion.
CONTAGIONIST
One who believes in the contagious character of certaindiseases, as of yellow fever.
CONTAGIOUS
Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation;catching; as, a contagious disease.
CONTAGIOUS DISEASE
A disease communicable by contact with a patient suffering fromit, or with some secretion of, or object touched by, such a patient.Most such diseases have already been proved to be germ diseases, andtheir communicability depends on the transmission of the livinggerms.  Many germ diseases are not contagious, some special method oftransmission or inoculation of the germs being required.
CONTAGIOUSLY
In a contagious manner.
CONTAGIOUSNESS
Quality of being contagious.
CONTAGIUM
Contagion; contagious matter. "Contagium of measles." Tyndall.
CONTAIN
To restrain desire; to live in continence or chastity.But if they can not contain, let them marry. 1 Cor. vii. 9.
CONTAINABLE
Capable of being contained or comprised. Boyle.
CONTAINANT
A container.
CONTAINER
One who, or that which, contains.
CONTAINMENT
That which is contained; the extent; the substance. [Obs.]The containment of a rich man's estate. Fuller.
CONTAMINABLE
Capable of being contaminated.
CONTAMINATE
To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; totaint; to pollute; to defile.Shall we now Contaminate our figures with base bribes Shak.I would neither have simplicity imposed upon, nor virtuecontaminated. Goldsmith.
CONTAMINATION
The act or process of contaminating; pollution; defilement;taint; also, that which contaminates.
CONTAMITIVE
Tending or liable to contaminate.
CONTANGO
The premium or interest paid by the buyer to the seller, to beallowed to defer paying for the stock purchased until the nextfortnightly settlement day. [Eng.]
CONTE
A short narrative or tale, esp. one dealing with surprising ormarvelous events.
CONTECTION
A covering. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CONTEK
Contumely; reproach. [Obs.] Wyclif.
CONTEMN
To view or treat with contempt, as mean and despicable; toreject with disdain; to despise; to scorn.Thy pompous delicacies I contemn. Milton.One who contemned divine and human laws. Dryden.
CONTEMNER
One who contemns; a despiser; a scorner. "Contemners of thegods." South.
CONTEMNINGLY
Contemptuously. [R.]
CONTEMPER
To modify or temper; to allay; to qualify; to moderate; tosoften. [Obs.]The antidotes . . . have allayed its bitterness and contempered itsmalignancy. Johnson.
CONTEMPERATE
To temper; to moderate. [Obs.]Moisten and contemperate the air. Sir T. Browne.
CONTEMPERATURE
The condition of being tempered; proportionate mixture;temperature. [Obs.]The different contemperature of the elements. SDouth.
CONTEMPLANCE
Contemplation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CONTEMPLANT
Given to contemplation; meditative. [R.] Coleridge.
CONTEMPLATE
To consider or think studiously; to ponder; to reflect; tomuse; to meditate.So many hours must I contemplate. Shak.
CONTEMPLATIST
A contemplator. [R.] I. Taylor.
CONTEMPLATIVE
A religious or either sex devoted to prayer and meditation,rather than to active works of charity.
CONTEMPLATIVELY
With contemplation; in a contemplative manner.
CONTEMPLATIVENESS
The state of being contemplative; thoughtfulness.
CONTEMPLATOR
One who contemplates. Sir T. Browne.
CONTEMPORANEITY
The state of being contemporaneous.The lines of contemporaneity in the oรถlitic system. J. Philips.
CONTEMPORANEOUS
Living, existing, or occurring at the same time; contemporary.The great age of Jewish philosophy, that of Aben Esra, Maimonides,and Kimchi, had been contemporaneous with the later Spanish school ofArabic philosophy. Milman- Con*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n.
CONTEMPORANEOUSLY
At the same time with some other event.
CONTEMPORARINESS
Existence at the same time; contemporaneousness. Howell.
CONTEMPORARY
One who lives at the same time with another; as, Petrarch andChaucer were contemporaries.
CONTEMPT
Disobedience of the rules, orders, or process of a court ofjustice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body; disorderly,contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of acourt, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect dueto its authority.
CONTEMPTIBILITY
The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness. Speed.
CONTEMPTIBLENESS
The state or quality of being contemptible, or of beingdespised.
CONTEMPTIBLY
In a contemptible manner.
CONTEMPTUOUS
Manifecting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful;haughty; insolent; disdainful.A proud, contemptious behavior. Hammond.Savage invectiveand contemptuous sarcasm. Macaulay.Rome . . . entertained the most contemptuous opinion of the Jews.Atterbury.
CONTEMPTUOUSLY
In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully.The apostles and most eminent Christians were poor, and usedcontemptuously. Jer. Taylor.
CONTEMPTUOUSNESS
Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence;haughtiness.
CONTEND
To struggle for; to contest. [R.]Carthage shall contend the world with Rome.Dryden.
CONTENDENT
n antagonist; a contestant. [Obs.]In all notable changes and revolutions the contendents have beenstill made a prey to the third party. L'Estrange.
CONTENDER
One who contends; a contestant.
CONTENDRESS
A female contestant. [R.]
CONTENEMENT
That which is held together with another thing; that which isconnected with a tenetment, or thing holden, as a certin quantity ofland a Burrill.
CONTENT
Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited bythat which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied;contented; at rest.Having food rainment, let us be therewith content. 1 Tim. vi. 8.
CONTENTATION
Content; satisfaction. [Obs.] Bacon.
CONTENTED
Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing.-- Con*tent"ed*ly, adv.-- Con*tent"ed*ness, n.
CONTENTFUL
Full of content. [Obs.] Barrow.
CONTENTIOUS
Contested; litigated; litigious; having power to decidecontroversy. Contentious jurisdiction (Eng. Eccl. Law), jurisdictionover matters in controversy between parties, in contradistinction tovoluntary jurisdiction, or that exercised upon matters not opposed orcontroverted.
CONTENTLESS
Discontented; dissatisfied. [R.] Shak.
CONTENTLY
In a contented manner. [Obs.]
CONTENTS
See Content, n.
CONTERMINABLE
Having the same bounds; terminating at the same time or place;conterminous.Love and life not conterminable. Sir H. Wotton.
CONTERMINAL
Conterminous.
CONTERMINANT
Having the same limits; ending at the same time; conterminous.Lamb.
CONTERMINATE
Having the same bounds; conterminous. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
CONTERMINOUS
Having the same bounds, or limits; bordering upon; contiguous.This conformed so many of them as were conterminous to the coloniesand garrisons, to the Roman laws. Sir M. Hale.
CONTESSERATION
An assemblage; a collection; harmonious union. [Obs.]That person of his [George Herbert], which afforded so unusual acontesseration of elegancies. Oley.
CONTEST
To make a subject of litigation; to defend, as a suit; todispute or resist; as a claim, by course of law; to controvert. Tocontest an election. (Polit.) (a) To strive to be elected. (b) Todispute the declared result of an election.
CONTESTABLE
Capable of being contested; debatable.
CONTESTANT
One who contests; an opponent; a litigant; a disputant; one whoclaims that which has been awarded to another.
CONTESTINGLY
In a contending manner.
CONTEX
To context. [Obs.] Boyle.
CONTEXT
Knit or woven together; close; firm. [Obs.]The coats, without, are context and callous. Derham.
CONTEXTURAL
Pertaining to contexture or arrangement of parts; producingcontexture; interwoven. Dr. John Smith (1666).
CONTEXTURE
The arrangement and union of the constituent parts of a thing;a weaving together of parts; structural character of a thing; system;constitution; texture.That wonderful contexture of all created beings. Dryden.He was not of any delicate contexture; his limbs rather sturdy thandainty. Sir H. Wotton.
CONTEXTURED
Formed into texture; woven together; arranged; composed. [R.]Carlyle.
CONTICENT
Silent. [R.] "The guests sit conticent." Thackeray.
CONTIGUATE
Contiguous; touching. [Obs.] Holland.
CONTIGUITY
The state of being contiguous; intimate association; nearness;proximity.The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton.
CONTIGUOUS
In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring;adjoining.The two halves of the paper did not appear fully divided . . . butseemed contiguous at one of their angles. Sir I. Newton.Sees no contiguous palace rear its head. Goldsmith.Contiguous angles. See Adjacent angles, under Angle.
CONTINENTAL
Of or pertaining to the confederated colonies collectively, inthe time of the Revolutionary War; as, Continental money.The army before Boston was designated as the Continental army, incontradistinction to that under General Gage, which was called the"Ministerial army." W. Irving.Continental Congress. See under Congress.-- Continental system (Hist.), the blockade of Great Britain orderedby Napoleon by the decree of Berlin, Nov. 21, 1806; the object beingto strike a blow at the maritime and commercial supremacy of GreatBritain, by cutting her off from all intercourse with the continentof Europe.
CONTINENTAL DRIVE
A transmission arrangement in which the longitudinal crankshaft drives the rear wheels through a clutch, change-speed gear,countershaft, and two parallel side chains, in order.
CONTINENTAL GLACIER
A broad ice sheet resting on a plain or plateau and spreadingoutward from a central nรฉvรฉ, or region of accumulation.
CONTINENTAL PRONUNCIATION
A method of pronouncing Latin and Greek in which the vowelshave their more familiar Continental values, as in German andItalian, the consonants being pronounced mostly as in English. Thestricter form of this method of pronouncing Latin approaches theRoman, the modified form the English, pronunciation. The Continentalmethod of Greek pronunciation is often called Erasmian.
CONTINENTAL SYSTEM
The system of commercial blockade aiming to exclude Englandfrom commerce with the Continent instituted by the Berlin decree,which Napoleon I. issued from Berlin Nov. 21, 1806, declaring theBritish Isles to be in a state of blockade, and British subjects,property, and merchandise subject to capture, and excluding Britishships from all parts of Europe under French dominion. The retaliatorymeasures of England were followed by the Milan decree, issued byNapoleon from Milan Dec. 17, 1807, imposing further restrictions, anddeclaring every ship going to or from a port of England or hercolonies to be lawful prize.
CONTINENTLY
In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately.
CONTINGENCE
See Contingency.
CONTINGENCY
A certain possible event that may or may not happen, by which,when happening, some particular title may be affected.
CONTINGENT
Dependent for effect on something that may or may not occur;as, a contingent estate.If a contingent legacy be left to any one when he attains, or if heattains, the age of twenty-one. Blackstone.
CONTINGENTLY
In a contingent manner; without design or foresight;accidentally.
CONTINGENTNESS
The state of being contingent; fortuitousness.
CONTINUABLE
Capable of being continued [R.]
CONTINUANT
Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound.-- n.
CONTINUATIVE
A term or expression denoting continuance. [R.]To these may be added continuatives; as, Rome remains to this day;which includes, at least, two propositions, viz., Rome was, and Romeis. I. Watts.
CONTINUATOR
One who, or that which, continues; esp., one who continues aseries or a work; a continuer. Sir T. Browne.
CONTINUED
Having extension of time, space, order of events, exertion ofenergy, etc.; extended; protacted; uninterrupted; also, resumed afterinterruption; extending through a succession of issues, session,etc.; as, a continued story. "Continued woe." Jenyns. "Continuedsuccession." Locke. Continued bass (Mus.), a bass continued throughan entire piece of music, while the other parts of the harmony areindicated by figures beneath the bass; the same as thorough bass orfigured bass; basso continuo. [It.] -- Continued fever (Med.), afever which presents no interruption in its course.-- Continued fraction (Math.), a fraction whose numerator is 1, andwhose denominator is a whole number plus a fraction whose numeratoris 1 and whose denominator is a whole number, plus a fraction, and soon.-- Continued proportion (Math.), a proportion composed of two ormore equal ratios, in which the consequent of each preceding ratio isthe same with the antecedent of the folowing one; as, 4 : 8 : 8 : 16:: 16 : 32.
CONTINUEDLY
Continuously.
CONTINUER
One who continues; one who has the power of perseverance orpersistence. "Indulgent continuers in sin." Hammond.I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good acontinuer. Shak.
CONTINUITY
the state of being continuous; uninterupted connection orsuccession; close union of parts; cohesion; as, the continuity offibers. Grew.The sight would be tired, if it were attracted by a continuity ofglittering objects. Dryden.Law of continuity (Math. & Physics), the principle that nothingpasses from one state to another without passing through all theintermediate states.-- Solution of continuity. (Math.) See under Solution.
CONTINUO
Basso continuo, or continued bass.
CONTINUOUS
Not deviating or varying from uninformity; not interrupted; notjoined or articulated. Continuous brake (Railroad), a brake which isattached to each car a train, and can be caused to operate in all thecars simultaneously from a point on any car or on the engine.-- Continuous impost. See Impost.
CONTINUOUSLY
In a continuous maner; without interruption.-- Con*tin"u*ous*ness, n.
CONTLINE
The space between the strands on the outside of a rope. Knight.
CONTORSION
See Contortion.
CONTORT
To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort;to wrest.The vertebral arteries are variously contorted. Ray.Kant contorted the term category from the proper meaning ofattributed. Sir W. Hamilton.
CONTORTION
A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortionof the muscles of the face. Swift.All the contortions of the sibyl, without the inspiration. Burke.
CONTORTIONIST
One who makes or practices contortions.
CONTORTIVE
Expressing contortion.
CONTORTUPLICATE
Plaited lengthwise and twisted in addition, as the bud of themorning-glory. Gray.
CONTOUR
The outline of a horizontal section of the ground, or of worksof fortification. Contour feathers (Zoรถl.), those feathers that formthe general covering of a bird.-- Contour of ground (Surv.), the outline of the surface of groundwith respect to its undulation, etc.-- Contour line (Topographical Suv.), the line in which a horizontalplane intersects a portion of ground, or the corresponding line in amap or chart.
CONTOURNE
Turned in a direction which is not the usual one; -- said of ananimal turned to the sinister which is usually turned to the dexter,or the like.
CONTOURNIATED
Having furrowed edges, as if turned in a lathe.
CONTRA
A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary,in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition ofmany English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref.
CONTRABAND
Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden; as,contraband goods, or trade.The contraband will always keep pace, in some measure, with the fairtrade. Burke.
CONTRABANDISM
Traffic in contraband gods; smuggling.
CONTRABANDIST
One who traffic illegaly; a smuggler.
CONTRABASS
, n. (Mus.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of thesame deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabassophicleide; the cotrabass tuba or bombardon.
CONTRABASSO
The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone.
CONTRACT
To shorten by omitting a letter or letters or by reducing twoor more vowels or syllables to one.
CONTRACT TABLET
A clay tablet on which was inscribed a contract, for safekeeping.  Such tablets were inclosed in an outer case (often calledthe envelope), on which was inscribed a duplicate of the inscriptionon the inclosed tablet.
CONTRACTEDNESS
The state of being contracted; narrowness; meannes;selfishness.
CONTRACTIBILITY
Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible;as, the contractibiliy and dilatability of air. Arbuthnot.
CONTRACTIBLE
Capable of contraction.Small air bladders distable and contractible. Arbuthnot.
CONTRACTIBLENESS
Contractibility.
CONTRACTILE
tending to contract; having the power or property ofcontracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as,the contractile tissues.The heart's contractile force. H. Brooke.Each cilium seems to be composed of contractile substance. Hixley.Contractile vacuole (Zoรถl.), a pulsating cavity in the interior of aprotozoan, supposed to be excretory in function. There may be one,two, or more.
CONTRACTILITY
The power possessed by the fibers of living muscle ofcontracting or shortening.
CONTRACTION
The process of shortening an operation.
CONTRACTIVE
Tending to contract; having the property or power or power ofcontracting.
CONTRACTOR
One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one whocovenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contractsto perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate,as in building houses or making a railroad.
CONTRACTURE
A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles,generally of the flexor muscles.
CONTRADANCE
A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or inopposite lines.
CONTRADICT
To oppose in words; to gainsay; to deny, or assert the contraryof, something.They . . . spake against those things which were spoken by Paul,contradicting and blaspheming. Acts xiii. 45.
CONTRADICTABLE
Capable of being contradicting.
CONTRADICTER
one who contradicts. Swift.
CONTRADICTIONAL
Contradictory; inconsistent; opposing. [R.] Milton.
CONTRADICTIVE
Contradictory; inconsistent.-- Con`tra*dict"ive*ly, adv..
CONTRADICTOR
A contradicter.
CONTRADICTORILY
In a contradictory manner. Sharp.
CONTRADICTORINESS
The quality of being contradictory; opposition; inconsistency.J. Whitaker.
CONTRADICTORY
propositions with the same terms, but opposed to each otherboth in quality and quantity.
CONTRADISTINCT
Distinguished by opposite qualities. J. Goodwin.
CONTRADISTINCTION
Distinction by contrast.That there are such things as sins of infirmity in contradistinctionto those of presumption is not to be questioned. South.
CONTRADISTINCTIVE
having the quality of contradistinction; distinguishing bycontrast.-- Con`tra*dis*tinc"tive, n.
CONTRADISTINGUISH
To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities.These are our complex ideas of soul and body, as contradistinguished.Locke.
CONTRAFAGETTO
The double bassoon, an octave deeper than the bassoon.
CONTRAFISSURE
A fissure or fracture on the side opposite to that whichreceived the blow, or at some distance from it. Coxe.
CONTRAHENT
Entering into covenant; contracting; as, contrahent parties.[Obs.] Mede.
CONTRAINDICANT
Something, as a symptom, indicating that the usual mode oftreatment is not to be followed. Burke.
CONTRAINDICATE
To indicate, as by a symptom, some method of treatment contraryto that which the general tenor of the case would seem to require.Contraindicating symptoms must be observed. Harvey.
CONTRAINDICATION
An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatmentusual in such cases.
CONTRALTO
Of or pertaining to a contralto, or to the part in music calledcontralto; as, a contralto voice.
CONTRAMURE
An outer wall. [Obs.] Chambers.
CONTRANATURAL
Opposed to or against nature; unnatural. [R.] Bp. Rust.
CONTRAPLEX
Pertaining to the sending of two messages in oppositedirections at the same time.
CONTRAPOSITION
A so-called immediate inference which consists in denying theoriginal subject of the contradictory predicate; e.g.: Every S is P;therefore, no Not-P is S.
CONTRAPTION
A contrivance; a new-fangled device; -- used scornfully.[Colloq. or Dial.] -- Con*trap"tious (#), a.
CONTRAPUNTAL
Pertaining to, or according to the rules of, counterpoint.
CONTRAPUNTIST
One skilled in counterpoint. L. Mason.
CONTRAREMONSTRANT
One who remonstrates in opposition or answer to a remonstraint.[R.]They did the synod wrong to make this distinction ofcontraremonstrants and remonstrants. Hales.
CONTRARIANT
Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory.[R.]The struggles of contrariant factions. Coleridge.
CONTRARIANTLY
Contrarily. [Obs.]
CONTRARIES
Propositions which directly and destructively contradict eachother, but of which the falsehood of one does not establish the truthof the other.If two universals differ in quality, they are contraries; as, everyvine is a tree; no vine is a tree. These can never be both truetogether; but they may be both false. I. Watts.
CONTRARILY
(adv. In a contrary manner; in opposition; on the other side;in opposite ways.
CONTRARINESS
state or quality of being contrary; opposition; inconsistency;contrariety; perverseness; obstinancy.
CONTRARIOUS
Showing contrariety; repugnant; perverse. [Archaic] Milton.She flew contrarious in the face of God. Mrs. Browning.
CONTRARIOUSLY
Contrarily; oppositely. Shak.
CONTRAROTATION
Circular motion in a direction contrary to some other circularmotion.
CONTRARY
Affirming the opposite; so opposed as to destroy each other;as, contrary propositions. Contrary motion (Mus.), the progression ofparts in opposite directions, one ascending, the other descending.
CONTRAST
To stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, oropposition of qualities.The joints which divide the sandstone contrast finely with thedivisional planes which separate the basalt into pillars. Lyell.
CONTRASTIMULANT
Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a courseof medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants.-- n. (Med.)
CONTRATE
Having cogs or teeth projecting parallel to the axis, insteadof radiating from it. [R.] Contrate wheel. See Crown wheel.
CONTRATENOR
Counter tenor; contralto.
CONTRAVALLATION
A trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, tosecure themselves and check sallies of the besieged.
CONTRAVENER
One who contravenes.
CONTRAVENTION
The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction;transgression; violation.Warrants in contravention of the acts of Parliament. Macaulay.In contravention of all his marriage stipulations. Motley.
CONTRAVERSION
A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe. Congreve.
CONTRAYERVA
A species of Dorstenia (D. Contrayerva), a South Americanplant, the aromatic root of which is sometimes used in medicine as agentle stimulant and tonic.
CONTRECOUP
A concussion or shock produced by a blow or other injury, in apart or region opposite to that at which the blow is received, oftencausing rupture or disorganisation of the parts affected.
CONTRETEMPS
An unexpected and untoward accident; something inopportune orembarassing; a hitch.In this unhappy contretemps. De Quincey.
CONTRIBUTABLE
Capable of being contributed.
CONTRIBUTE
To give or grant i common with others; to give to a commonstock or for a common purpose; to furnish or suply in part; to give(money or other aid) for a specified object; as, to contribute foodor fuel for the poor.England contributes much more than any other of the allies. Addison.
CONTRIBUTION
An irregular and arbitrary imposition or tax leved on thepeople of a town or country.These sums, . . . and the forced contributions paid by lucklesspeasants, enabled him to keep his straggling troops together. Motley.
CONTRIBUTION PLAN
A plan of distributing surplus by giving to each policy theexcess of premiums and interest earned thereon over the expenses ofmanagement, cost of insurance, and the policy value at the date ofcomputation. This excess is called the contribution of the policy.
CONTRIBUTIONAL
Pertaining to, or furnishing, a contribution.
CONTRIBUTIVE
Contributing, or tending to contribute. Fuller.
CONTRIBUTOR
One who, or that which, contributes; specifically, one whowrites articles for a newspaper or magazine.
CONTRIBUTORY
Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the sameend; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to somecommon stock; contributive. Milton.Bonfires of contributory wood. Chapman.Contributory negligence (Law), negligence by an injured party, whichcombines with the negligence of the injurer in producing the injury,and which bars recovery when it is the proximate cause of the injury.Wharton.
CONTRIST
To make sad. [Obs.]To deject and contrist myself. Sterne.
CONTRISTATE
To make sorrowful. [Obs.] Bacon.
CONTRITE
A contrite person. Hooker.
CONTRITENESS
Deep sorrow and penitence for sin; contrition.
CONTRITURATE
To triturate; to pulverize. [R.]
CONTRIVABLE
Capable of being contrived, planned, invented, or devised.A perpetual motion may seem easily contrivable. Bp. Wilkins.
CONTRIVE
To form by an exercise of ingenuity; to devise; to invent; todesign; to plan.What more likely to contrive this admirable frame of the universethan infinite wisdom. Tillotson.neither do thou imagine that I shall contrive aught against his life.Hawthorne.
CONTRIVEMENT
Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan. [Obs.]Consider the admirable contrivement and artifice of this greatfabric. Glanvill.Active to meet their contrivements. Sir G. Buck.
CONTRIVER
One who contrives, devises, plans, or schemas. Swift.
CONTROLLABILITY
Capability of being controlled; controllableness.
CONTROLLABLE
Capable of being controlled, checked, or restrained; amenableto command.Passion is the drunkeness of the mind, and, therefore, . . . notalways controllable by reason. South.
CONTROLLABLENESS
Capability of being controlled.
CONTROLLER
An iron block, usually bolted to a ship's deck, for controllingthe running out of a chain cable. The links of the cable tend to dropinto hollows in the block, and thus hold fast until disengaged.
CONTROLLERSHIP
The office of a controller.
CONTROVERSARY
Controversial. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
CONTROVERSE
Controversy. [Obs.] Spenser.
CONTROVERSER
A disputant. [Obs.]
CONTROVERSIAL
Relating to, or consisting of, controversy; disputatious;polemical; as, controversial divinity.Whole libraries of controversial books. Macaulay.
CONTROVERSIALIST
One who carries on a controversy; a disputant.He [Johnson] was both intellectually and morally of the stuff ofwhich controversialists are made. Macaulay.
CONTROVERSIALLY
In a controversial manner.
CONTROVERSION
Act of controverting; controversy. [Obs.] Hooker.
CONTROVERSOR
A controverser. [Obs.]
CONTROVERT
To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose byreasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; todebate.Some controverted points had decided according to the sense of thebest jurists. Macaulay.
CONTROVERTER
One who controverts; a controversial writer; acontroversialist.Some controverters in divinity are like swaggerers in a tavern. B.Jonson.
CONTROVERTIBLE
Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting ofquestion.-- Con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv.
CONTROVERTIST
One skilled in or given to controversy; a controversialist.How unfriendly is the controvertist to the discernment of the critic!Campbell.
CONTUMACIOUS
Willfully disobedient to the summous or prders of a court.Blackstone.
CONTUMACY
A willful contempt of, and disobedience to, any lawful summons,or to the rules and orders of court, as a refusal to appear in courtwhen legally summoned.
CONTUMELY
Rudeness compounded of haughtiness and contempt; scornfulinsolence; despiteful treatment; disdain; contemptuousness in act orspeech; disgrace.The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely. Shak.Nothing aggravates tyranny so much as contumely. Burke.
CONTUSION
A bruise; an injury attended with more or less disorganizationof the subcutaneous tissue and effusion of blood beneath the skin,but without apparent wound.
CONURE
An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species areknown. See Parrakeet.
CONUS
A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone,n., 4.
CONUSABLE
Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.
CONUSANT
See Cognizant.
CONUSOR
See Cognizor.
CONVALESCE
To recover health and strength gradually, after sickness orweakness; as, a patient begins to convalesce.
CONVALESCED
Convalescent. [R.]He found the queen somewhat convalesced. J. Knox.
CONVALESCENT
One recovering from sickness.
CONVALESCENTLY
In the manner of a convalescent; with increasing strength orvigor.
CONVALLAMARIN
A white, crystalline, poisonous substance, regarded as aglucoside, extracted from the lily of the valley (ConvallariaMajalis). Its taste is first bitter, then sweet.
CONVALLARIA
The lily of the valley.
CONVALLARIN
A white, crystalline glucoside, of an irritating taste,extracted from the convallaria or lily of the valley.
CONVECTION
A process of transfer or transmission, as of heat orelectricity, by means of currents in liquids or gases, resulting fromchanges of temperature and other causes.Liquids are generally heated by convection -- when heat is appliedfrom bellow. Nichol.
CONVECTIVE
Caused or accomplished by convection; as, a convectivedischarge of electricity. Faraday.
CONVECTIVELY
In a convective manner. Hare.
CONVELLENT
Tending to tear or pull up. [Obs.]The ends of the fragment . . . will not yield to the convellentforce. Todd & Bowman.
CONVENABLE
Capable of being convened or assembled.
CONVENANCE
That which is suitable, agreeable, or convenient.And they missed Their wonted convenance, cheerly hid the loss.Emerson.
CONVENIENTLY
In a convenient manner, form, or situation; without difficulty.
CONVENT
To call before a judge or judicature; to summon; to convene.[Obs.] Shak.
CONVENTICAL
Of or from, or pertaining to, a convent. "Conventical wages."Sterne. Conventical prior. See Prior.
CONVENTICLER
One who supports or frequents conventicles. Dryden.
CONVENTICLING
Belonging or going to, or resembling, a conventicle. [Obs.]Conventicling schools . . . set up and taught secretly by fanatics.South.
CONVENTION
An extraordinary assembly of the parkiament or estates of therealm, held without the king's writ, -- as the assembly whichrestored Charles II. to the throne, and that which declared thethrone to be abdicated by James II.Our gratitude is due . . . to the Long Parliament, to the Convention,and to William of Orange. Macaulay.
CONVENTIONALISM
The principles or practice of conventionalizing. SeeConventionalize, v. t.
CONVENTIONALITY
The state of being conventional; adherence to socialformalities or usages; that which is established by conventional use;one of the customary usages of social life.
CONVENTIONALIZE
To make designs in art, according to conventional principles.Cf. Conventionalize, v. t., 2.
CONVENTIONALLY
In a conventional manner.
CONVENTIONARY
Acting under contract; settled by express agreement; as,conventionary tenants. [Obs.] R. Carew.
CONVENTIONER
One who belongs to a convention or assembly.
CONVENTIONIST
One who enters into a convention, covenant, or contract.
CONVENTUAL
Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic. "A conventual garb."Macaulay. Conventual church, a church attached or belonging to aconvent or monastery. Wordsworth.
CONVERGE
To tend to one point; to incline and approach nearer together;as, lines converge.The mountains converge into a single ridge. Jefferson.
CONVERGENT
tending to one point of focus; tending to approach each other;converging.As many rays of light, as conveniently can be let in, and madeconvergent. Boyle.The vast dome of its cathedral . . . directing its convergent curvesto heaven. Hallam.
CONVERGING
Tending to one point; approaching each other; convergent; as,converging lines. Whewell. Converging rays(Opt.), rays of light,which, proceeding from different points of an object, tend toward asingle point.-- Converging series (Math.), a series in which if an indefinitelygreat number of terms be taken, their sum will become indefinitelynear in value to a fixed quantity, which is called the sum of theseries; -- opposed to a diverging series.
CONVERSABLE
Qualified for conversation; disposed to converse; sociable;free in discourse.While young, humane, conversable, and kind. Cowper.
CONVERSABLENESS
The quality of being conversable; disposition to converse;sociability.
CONVERSABLY
In a conversable manner.
CONVERSANCE
The state or quality of being conversant; habit of familiarity;familiar acquaintance; intimacy. [R.]
CONVERSANCY
Conversance [R.]
CONVERSANT
One who converses with another; a convenser. [R.]
CONVERSANTLY
In a familiar manner.
CONVERSATIONAL
Pertaining to conversation; in the manner of one conversing;as, a conversational style. Thackeray.
CONVERSATIONALIST
A conversationist.
CONVERSATIONED
Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved. [Obs.]Till she be better conversationed, . . . I'll keep As far from her asthe gallows. Beau. & Fl.
CONVERSATIONISM
A word or phrase used in conversation; a colloqualism.
CONVERSATIONIST
One who converses much, or who excels in conversation. Byron.
CONVERSATIVE
Relating to intercourse with men; social; -- opposed tocontemplative.She chose . . . to endue him with the conversative qualities ofyouth. Sir H. Wotton.
CONVERSAZIONE
A meeting or assembly for conversation, particularly onliterary or scientific subjects. Gray.These conversazioni [at Florence] resemble our card assemblies. A.Drummond.
CONVERSE
, a. Etym: [L. conversus, p.p. of convertere. See Convert.]Turned about; reversed in order or relation; reciprocal; as, aconverse proposition.
CONVERSELY
In a converse manner; with change of order or relation;reciprocally. J. S. Mill.
CONVERSER
One who engages in conversation.
CONVERSIBLE
Capable of being converted or reversed. Hammond.
CONVERSION
An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of anotheras if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of ahorse.Or bring my action of conversion And trover for my goods. Hudibras.
CONVERT
To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was thesubject of the first becomes the predicate of the second.
CONVERTEND
Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion;-- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after whichprocess it is termed the conversae. See Converse, n. (Logic).
CONVERTER
A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten castiron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of airforced through the liquid metal.
CONVERTIBILITY
The condition or quality of being convertible; capability ofbeing exchanged; convertibleness.The mutual convertibility of land into money, and of money into land.Burke.
CONVERTIBLENESS
The state of being convertible; convertibility.
CONVERTIBLY
In a convertible manner.
CONVERTITE
A convert. [Obs.] Shak.
CONVEX
Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularlyprotuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved linewhen viewed from without, in opposition to concave.Drops of water naturally form themselves into figures with a convexsurface. Whewell.Double convex, convex on both sides; convexo-convex.
CONVEXED
Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form. Sir T. Browne.
CONVEXEDLY
In a convex form; convexly. Sir T. Browne.
CONVEXEDNESS
Convexity.
CONVEXITY
The state of being convex; the exterior surface of a convexbody; roundness.A smooth, uniform convexity and rotundity of a globe. Bentley.
CONVEXLY
In a convex form; as, a body convexly shaped.
CONVEXNESS
The state of being convex; convexity.
CONVEXO-CONCAVE
Convex on one side, and concave on the other. The curves of theconvex and concave sides may be alike or may be different. SeeMeniscus.
CONVEXO-CONVEX
Convex on botConvex, a.
CONVEXO-PLANE
Convex on one side, and flat on the other; plano-convex.
CONVEY
To play the thief; to steal. [Cant]But as I am Crack, I will convey, crossbite, and cheat uponSimplicius. Marston.
CONVEYABLE
Capable of being conveyed or transferred. Burke.
CONVEYANCE
The act by which the title to property, esp. real estate, istransferred; transfer of ownership; an instrument in writing (as adeed or mortgage), by which the title to property is conveyed fromone person to another.[He] found the conveyances in law to be so firm, that in justice hemust decree the land to the earl. Clarendon.
CONVEYANCER
One whose business is to draw up conveyances of property, asdeeds, mortgages, leases, etc. Burrill.
CONVEYANCING
The business of a conveyancer; the act or business of drawingdeeds, leases, or other writings, for transferring the title toproperty from one person to another.
CONVEYOR
A contrivance for carrying objects from place to place; esp.,one for conveying grain, coal, etc., -- as a spiral or screw turningin a pipe or trough, an endless belt with buckets, or a truck runningalong a rope.
CONVICIATE
To utter reproaches; to raise a clamor; to rail. [Obs.]To conviciate instead of accusing. Laud.
CONVICINITY
Immediate vicinity; neighborhood.The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton.
CONVICIOUS
Expressing reproach; abusive; railing; taunting. [Obs.]"Convicious words." Queen Elizabeth (1559).
CONVICT
Proved or found guilty; convicted. [Obs.] Shak.Convict by flight, and rebel to all law. Milton.
CONVICTIBLE
Capable of being convicted. [R.] Ash.
CONVICTION
A judgment of condemnation entered by a court havingjurisdiction; the act or process of finding guilty, or the state ofbeing found guilty of any crime by a legal tribunal.Conviction may accrue two ways. Blackstone.
CONVICTISM
The policy or practice of transporting convicts to penalsettlements. "The evils of convictism." W. Howitt.
CONVICTIVE
Convincing. [R.]The best and most convictive argument. Glanwill.-- Con*vict"ive*ly, adv.-- Con*vict"ive*ness, n.
CONVINCEMENT
Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction.[R.]The fear of a convincement. Milton.
CONVINCER
One who, or that which, convinces; one who wins over by proof.
CONVINCINGLY
in a convincing manner; in a manner to compel assent.
CONVINCINGNESS
The power of convincing, or the quality of being convincing.
CONVIVAL
pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial. [Obs.] "Aconvival dish." Sir T. Browne.
CONVIVE
To feast together; to be convivial. [Obs.] "There, in the full,convive we." Shak.
CONVIVIAL
Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating anddrinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial.Which feasts convivial meetings we did name. Denham.
CONVIVIALIST
A person of convivial habits.
CONVIVIALITY
The good humor or mirth indulged in upon festive occasions; aconvivial spirit or humor; festivity.
CONVIVIALLY
In a convivial manner.
CONVOCATE
To convoke; to call together. [Obs.] May (Lucan).
CONVOCATION
An assembly of the clergy, by their representatives, to consulton ecclesiastical affairs.
CONVOCATIONAL
Of or pertaining to a convocation.
CONVOCATIONIST
An advocate or defender of convocation.
CONVOKE
To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons.There remained no resource but the dreadful one of convoking aparliament. palfrey.
CONVOLUTE
Rolled or wound together, one part upon another; -- said of theleaves of plants in รฆstivation.
CONVOLUTION
An irregular, tortuous folding of an organ or part; as, theconvolutions of the intestines; the cerebral convolutions. See Brain.
CONVOLVE
To roll or wind together; to roll or twist one part on another.Then Satan first knew pain, And writhed him to and fro convolved.Milton.
CONVOLVULACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe bindweed and the morning-glory are common examples.
CONVOLVULIN
A glucoside occurring in jalap (the root of a convolvulaceousplant), and extracted as a colorless, tasteless, gummy mass ofpowerful purgative properties.
CONVOLVULUS
A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, includingthe common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory,but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomรฆa.The luster of the long convolvuluses That coiled around the statelystems. Tennyson.
CONVOY
To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attendfor protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman.I know ye skillful to convoy The total freight of hope and joy.Emerson.
CONVULSION
An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of themuscular parts of an animal body.
CONVULSIONAL
Pertaining to, or having, convulsions; convulsionary. [R.]Lamb.
CONVULSIONARY
Pertaining to convulsion; convulsive. "Convulsionarystruggles." Sir W. Scott.
CONVULSIONIST
One who has convulsions; esp., one of a body of fanatics inFrance, early in the eighteenth century, who went into convulsionsunder the influence of religious emotion; as, the Convulsionists ofSt. Mรฉdard.
CONVULSIVE
Producing, or attended with, convulsions or spasms;characterized by convulsions; convulsionary.An irregular, convulsive movement may be necessary to throw off anirregular, convulsive disease. Burke.
CONVULSIVELY
in a convulsive manner.
CONY-CATCH
To deceive; to cheat; to trick. [Obs.]Take heed, Signor Baptista, lest you be cony-catched in the thisbusiness. Shak.
CONY-CATCHER
A cheat; a sharper; a deceiver. [Obs.] Minsheu.
CONYLENE
An oily substance, C8H14, obtained from several derivatives ofconine.
CONYRINE
A blue, fluorescent, oily base (regarded as a derivative ofpyridine), obtained from conine.
COO
A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes asa call or signal. [Written also cooie.]
COOK
To make the noise of the cuckoo. [Obs. or R.]Constant cuckoos cook on every side. The Silkworms (1599).
COOKBOOK
A book of directions and receipts for cooking; a cookery book.[U.S.]"Just How": a key to the cookbooks. Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney.
COOKEE
A female cook. [R.]
COOKERY
See Cooky.
COOKMAID
A female servant or maid who dresses provisions and assists thecook.
COOKROOM
A room for cookery; a kitchen; the galley or caboose of a ship.Sir W. Raleigh.
COOKSHOP
An eating house. "A subterranean cookshop." Macaulay.
COOKY
A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.
COOL
A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperatureof the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool ofthe morning or evening.
COOL-HEADED
Having a temper not easily excited; free from passion.-- Cool"-head`ed*ness, n.
COOLER
That which cools, or abates heat or excitement.if acid things were used only as coolers, they would not be so properin this case. Arbuthnot.
COOLIE
Same as Cooly.
COOLING
Adapted to cool and refresh; allaying heat. "The coolingbrook." Goldsmith. Cooling card, something that dashes hopes. [Obs.]-- Cooling time (Law), such a lapse of time as ought, taking all thecircumstances of the case in view, to produce a subsiding of passionpreviously provoked. Wharton.
COOLISH
Somewhat cool.The nights began to grow a little coolish. Goldsmith.
COOLLY
Coolish; cool. [Obs.] Spenser.
COOLUNG
The great gray crane of India (Grus cinerea). [Also writtencoolen and cullum.]
COOM
Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comesfrom axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven. Phillips.Bailey.
COOMB
A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter. [Written alsocomb.]
COON
A raccoon. See Raccoon.
COONCAN
A game of cards derived from conquian, played by two or moreplayers with one or two full packs of cards.
COONTIE
A cycadaceous plant of Florida and the West Indies, the Zamiaintegrifolia, from the stems of which a kind of sago is prepared.
COOP
To confine in a coop; hence, to shut up or confine in a narrowcompass; to cramp; -- usually followed by up, sometimes by in.The Trojans coopet within their walls so long. Dryden.The contempt of all other knowledge . . . coops the understanding upwithin narrow bounds. Locke.
COOPEE
See Coupe. [Obs.] Johnson.
COOPER
One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc.
COOPERANT
Operating together; as, coรถperant forces.
COOPERATE
To act or operate jointly with another or others; to concur inaction, effort, or effect.Whate'er coรถperates to the common mirth. Crashaw.
COOPERATION
The association of a number of persons for their benefit.
COOPERATIVE
Operating jointly to the same end. Coรถperative society, asociety established on the principle of a joint-stock association,for the production of commodities, or their purchase and distributionfor consumption, or for the borrowing and lending of capital amongits members.-- Coรถperative store, a store established by a coรถperative society,where the members make their purchases and share in the profits orlosses.
COOPERATOR
One who labors jointly with others to promote the same end."Coรถperators with the truth." Boyle.
COOPERING
Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks,etc.; the business of a cooper.
COOPERY
Relating to a cooper; coopered. [Obs.]Coopery vessels made of wood. Holland.
COOPT
To choose or elect in concert with another. [R.]Each of the hundred was to coรถpt three others. Jowett (Thysyd. ).
COOPTATE
To choose; to elect; to coรถpt. [Obs.] Cockeram.
COOPTATION
The act of choosing; selection; choice. [Obs.]The first election and coรถptation of a friend. Howell.
COORDAIN
To ordain or appoint for some purpose along with another.
COORDINANCE
Joint ordinance.
COORDINATE
Equal in rank or order; not subordinate.Whether there was one Supreme Governor of the world, or manycoรถrdinate powers presiding over each country. Law.Conjunctions joint sentences and coรถrdinate terms. Rev. R. Morris.Coรถrdinate adjectives, adjectives disconnected as regards aneanother, but referring equally to the same subject.-- Coรถrdinate conjunctions, conjunctions joining independentpropositions. Rev. R. Morris.
COORDINATELY
In a coรถrdinate manner.
COORDINATENESS
The state of being coรถrdinate; equality of rank or authority.
COORDINATIVE
Expressing coรถrdination. J. W. Gibbs.
COOTFOOT
The pharalope; -- so called because its toes are like thecoot's.
COOTHAY
A striped satin made in India. McElrath.
COP
same as Merlon.
COP-ROSE
The red, or corn, poppy. [Written also cup-rose.]
COPAL
A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees ofZanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum,T. verrocosum, and Hymenรฆa Courbaril), and dug from earth whereforests have stood in Africa; -- used chiefly in making varnishes. Ur
COPALM
The yellowish, fragrant balsam yielded by the sweet gum; also,the tree itself.
COPARCENARY
Partnership in inheritance; joint heirship; joint right ofsucession to an inheritance.
COPARCENER
One who has an equal portion with others of an inheritance.All the coparceners together make but one heir, and have but oneestate among them. blackstone.
COPARCENY
An equal share of an inheritance.
COPART
To share. [Obs.]For, of all miserias, I hold that chief Wretched to be, when nonecoparts our grief. Webster (1661).
COPARTMENT
A compartment. [Obs.] T. Warton.
COPARTNER
One who is jointly concerned with one or more persons inbusiness, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer.the associates and copartners of our loss. Milton.
COPARTNERY
the state of being copartners in any undertaking. [R.]
COPATAIN
Having a high crown, or a point or peak at top. [Obs.]A copatain hat made on a Flemish block. Gascoigne.
COPATRIOT
A joint patriot.
COPE
The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold.Knight. De Colange.
COPE-CHISEL
A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove. Knight.
COPECK
A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.
COPED
Clad in a cope.
COPELATA
See Larvalla.
COPEMAN
A chapman; a dealer; a merchant. [Obs.]He would have sold his part of paradise For ready money, had he met acopeman. B. Jonson.
COPENHAGEN
A sweetened hot drink of spirit and beaten eggs.
COPEPOD
Of or pertaining to the Copepoda.-- n.
COPEPODA
An order of Entomastraca, including many minute Crustacea, bothfreshwater and marine.
COPERNICAN
Pertaining to Copernicus, a Prussian by birth (b. 1473, d.1543), who taught the world the solar system now received, called theCopernican system.
COPESMATE
An associate or companion; a friend; a partner. [Obs.]Misshapen time, copesmate of ugly Night. Shak.
COPESTONE
A stone for coping. See Coping.
COPING
The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often withsloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping. Gwill.
COPIOUS
Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful.Kindly pours its copious treasures forth. Thomson.Hail, Son of God, Savior of men! thy name Shall be the copious matterof my song. Milton.
COPIOUSLY
In a copious manner.
COPIOUSNESS
The state or quality of being copious; abudance; plenty; also,diffuseness in style.To imitatethe copiousness of Homer. Dryden.
COPIST
A copier. [Obs.] "A copist after nature." Shaftesbury.
COPLANAR
Situated in one plane.
COPLAND
A piece of ground terminating in a point or acute angle. [Obs.]
COPORTION
Equal share. [Obs.]Myself will bear . . . coportion of your pack. Spenser.
COPPED
Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested. Wiseman.
COPPEL
See Cupel.
COPPER
the boilers in the galley for cooking; as, a ship's coppers.
COPPER WORKS
A place where copper is wrought or manufactured. Woodward.
COPPER-BOTTOMED
Having a bottom made of copper, as a tin boiler or othervessel, or sheathed with copper, as a ship.
COPPER-FACED
Faced or covered with copper; as, copper-faced type.
COPPER-FASTENED
Fastened with copper bolts, as the planks of ships, etc.; as, acopper-fastened ship.
COPPER-NICKEL
Nicolite.
COPPER-NOSE
A red nose. Shak.
COPPERAS
Green vitriol, or sulphate of iron; a green crystallinesubstance, of an astringent taste, used in making ink, in dyeingblack, as a tonic in medicine, etc. It is made on a large scale bythe oxidation of iron pyrites. Called also ferrous sulphate.
COPPERHEAD
A poisonous American serpent (Ancistrodon conotortrix), closelyallied to the rattlesnake, but without rattles; -- called alsocopper-belly, and red viper.
COPPERISH
Containing, or partaking of the nature of, copper; like copper;as, a copperish taste.
COPPERSMITH
One whose occupation is to manufacture copper utensils; aworker in copper.
COPPERY
Mixed with copper; containing copper, or made of copper; likecopper.
COPPICE
A grove of small growth; a thicket of brushwood; a wood cut atcertain times for fuel or other purposes. See Copse.The rate of coppice lands will fall, upon the discovery of coalmines. Locke.
COPPIN
A cop of thread.
COPPLE
Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hillrising to a point.A low cape, and upon it a copple not very high. Hakluyt.
COPPLE DUST
Cupel dust. [Obs.]Powder of steel, or copple dust. Bacon.
COPPLE-CROWN
A created or high-topped crown or head. "Like the copple-crownthe lapwing has." T. Randolph.-- Cop"ple-crowned`, a.
COPPLED
Rising to a point; conical; copped. [Obs.] Woodward.
COPPLESTONE
A cobblestone. [Obs.]
COPPS
See Copse. [Obs.]
COPRA
The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil isexpressed. [Written also cobra, copperah, coppra.]
COPROLITE
A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement.
COPROLITIC
Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites.
COPROPHAGAN
A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung.
COPROPHAGOUS
Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.
COPS
The connecting crook of a harrow. [Prov. Eng.]
COPSE
A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.Near yonder copse where once the garden smiled. Goldsmith.
COPSEWOOD
Brushwood; coppice. Macaulay.
COPSY
Characterized by copses. "Copsy villages." "Copsy banks." J.Dyer.
COPTIC
Of or pertaining to the Copts.-- n.
COPTIC CHURCH
The native church of Egypt or church of Alexandria, which ingeneral organization and doctrines resembles the Roman CatholicChurch, except that it holds to the Monophysitic doctrine which wascondemned (a. d. 451) by the council of Chalcedon, and allows itspriests to marry. The "pope and patriarch" has jurisdiction over theAbyssinian Church. Since the 7th century the Coptic Church has beenso isolated from modifying influences that in many respects it is themost ancient monument of primitive Christian rites and ceremonies.But centuries of subjection to Moslem rule have weakened and degradedit.
COPULA
The word which unites the subject and predicate.
COPULATE
Joining subject and predicate; copulative. F. A. March.
COPULATIVE
Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulativeconjunction like "and".
COPULATIVELY
In a copulative manner.
COPULATORY
Used in sexual union; as, the copulatory organs of insects.
COPY
Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, theprinters are calling for more copy.
COPYER
See Copier.
COPYGRAPH
A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing ordrawing.
COPYHOLDER
One possessed of land in copyhold.
COPYING
From Copy, v. Copying ink. See under Ink.-- Copying paper, thin unsized paper used for taking copies ofletters, etc., in a copying press.-- Copying press, a machine for taking by pressure, an exact copy ofletters, etc., written in copying ink.
COPYIST
A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.
COPYRIGHT
The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to printand publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all otherpersons. This right may be had in maps, charts, engravings, plays,and musical compositions, as well as in books.
COQUE
A small loop or bow of ribbon used in making hats, boas, etc.
COQUELICOT
The wild poppy, or red corn rose.
COQUET
To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; totreat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive anddisappoint.You are coquetting a maid of honor. Swift.
COQUETRY
Attempts to attract admoration, notice, or love, for the meregratification of vanity; trifling in love. "Little affectations ofcoquetry." Addison.
COQUETTE
A tropical humming bird of the genus Lophornis, with veryelegant neck plumes. Several species are known. See Illustrationunder Spangle, v. t.
COQUETTISH
Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing.A pretty, coquettish housemaid. W. Irving.
COQUETTISHLY
In a coquettish manner.
COQUILLA NUT
The fruit of a Brazilian tree (Attalea funifera of Martius.).
COQUIMBITE
A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; whitecopperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo,Chili.
COQUINA
A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells andcorals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbedsand for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.
COR
A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer. [Written also core.]
COR-
A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.
CORA
The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia toNorth Africa.
CORACLE
A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather oroilcloth. It was used by the ancient Britons, and is still used byfisherman in Wales and some parts of Ireland. Also, a similar boatused in Thibet and in Egypt.
CORACOID
Pertaining to a bone of the shoulder girdle in most birds,reptiles, and amphibians, which is reduced to a process of thescapula in most mammals.
CORAGE
See Courage [Obs.]To Canterbury with full devout corage. Chaucer.
CORAH
Plain; undyed; -- applied to Indian silk. -- n.
CORAL
The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a fewHydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa.
CORAL FISH
Any bright-colored fish of the genera Chรฆtodon, Pomacentrus,Apogon, and related genera, which live among reef corals.
CORAL-RAG
Same as Corallian.
CORALED
Having coral; covered with coral.
CORALLACEOUS
Like coral, or partaking of its qualities.
CORALLIAN
A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of themiddle division of the oรถlite; -- called also coral-rag.
CORALLIFEROUS
Containing or producing coral.
CORALLIFORM
resembling coral in form.
CORALLIGENA
Same as Anthozoa.
CORALLIGENOUS
producing coral; coraligerous; coralliferous. Humble.
CORALLIGEROUS
Producing coral; coraliferous.
CORALLIN
A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly ofrosolic acid. See Aurin, and Rosolic acid under Rosolic. Redcorallin, a red dyestuff which is obtained by treating aurin orrosolic acid with ammonia; -- called also pรฆonin.-- Yellow corallin. See Aurin.
CORALLINE
Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone.
CORALLINITE
A fossil coralline.
CORALLITE
A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.
CORALLOID
Having the form of coral; branching like coral.
CORALLOIDAL
resembling coral; coralloid. Sir T. browne.
CORALLUM
The coral or skeleton of a zoรถphyte, whether calcareous ofhorny, simple or compound. See Coral.
CORALWORT
A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- calledalso toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root.
CORANACH
A lamentation for the dead; a dirge. [Written also coranich,corrinoch, coronach, cronach, etc.] [Scot.]
CORB
An ornament in a building; a corbel.
CORBE
Crooked. [Obs.] "Corbe shoulder." Spenser.
CORBEIL
A sculptured basket of flowers; a corbel. [Obs.]
CORBEL
A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving thespring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothicarchitecture.
CORBEL-TABLE
A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling betweenthem; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.
CORBIESTEP
One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished inplace of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep.
CORCHORUS
The common name of the kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, ayellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashionedgardens.
CORD
Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon ora nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal.
CORDAGE
Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope orcord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.
CORDAL
Same as Cordelle.
CORDATE
Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf.
CORDATELY
In a cordate form.
CORDED
Bound about, or wound, with cords.
CORDELIER
A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knottedcord worn by all Franciscans.
CORDELING
Twisting.
CORDELLE
A twisted cord; a tassel. Halliwell.
CORDIAL
Any invigorating and stimulating preparation; as, a peppermintcordial.
CORDIALIZE
To grow cordial; to feel or express cordiality. [R.]
CORDIALLY
In a cordial manner. Dr. H. More.
CORDIALNESS
Cordiality. Cotgrave.
CORDIERITE
See Iolite.
CORDIFORM
Heart-shaped. Gray.
CORDILLERA
A mountain ridge or chain.
CORDINER
A cordwainer. [Obs.]
CORDITE
A smokeless powder composed of nitroglycerin, guncotton, andmineral jelly, and used by the British army and in other services. Inmaking it the ingredients are mixed into a paste with the addition ofacetone and pressed out into cords  (of various diameters) resemblingbrown twine, which are dried and cut to length. A variety containingless nitroglycerin than the original is known  as cordite M. D.
CORDON
The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face ofthe wall a few inches.
CORDONNET
Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used fortassels, fringes, etc. McElrath.
CORDOVAN
Same as Cordwain. in England the name is applied to leathermade from horsehide.
CORDUROY
Trousers or breeches of corduroy. Corduroy road, a roadwayformed of logs laid side by side across it, as in marshy places; --so called from its rough or ribbed surface, resembling corduroy.[U.S.]
CORDWAIN
A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskintanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished,colored, gilded, or the like.Buskins he wore of costliest cordwain. Spenser.
CORDWAINER
A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker.[Archaic.]
CORDY
Of, or like, cord; having cords or cordlike parts.
CORE
A body of individuals; an assemblage. [Obs.]He was in a core of people. Bacon.
CORE LOSS
Energy wasted by hysteresis or eddy currents in the core of anarmature, transformer, etc.
COREOPSIS
A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two-horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria,of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has beenused in dyeing.
COREPLASTY
A plastic operation on the pupil, as for forming an artificialpupil. -- Cor`e*plas"tic (-plas"tik), a.
CORER
That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an applecorer.
CORF
A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the MediterraneanSea.
CORIACEOUS
Stiff, like leather or parchment.
CORIANDER
An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit orseeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicineare considered as stomachic and carminative.
CORIDINE
A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor,occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded asan organic base, homologous with pyridine. Also, one of a series ofmetameric compounds of which coridine is a type. [Written alsocorindine.]
CORINDON
See Corrundum.
CORINNE
The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle. [Written alsokorin.]
CORINTHIAC
Pertaining to Corinth.
CORINTHIAN
Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture,invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans.This is the lightest and most ornamental of the three orders used bythe Greeks. Parker.
CORIVAL
A rival; a corrival.
CORK FOSSIL
A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork.
CORKAGE
The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and takingcare of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest.
CORKED
having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottleof wine is corked.
CORKINESS
The quality of being corky.
CORKING PIN
A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman'sheaddress to a cork mold. [Obs.] Swift.
CORKSCREW
An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corksfrom bottles. Corkscrew starts, a spiral staircase around a solidnewel.
CORKWING
A fish; the goldsinny.
CORKWOOD
The tree producing the aligator apple. (3)
CORM
A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.
CORMOGENY
The embryological history of groups or families of individuals.
CORMOPHYLOGENY
The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals. Haeckel.
CORMORANT
Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sacunder the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, andhave become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, andhence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese. [Written also corvorant.]
CORMORAUT
Ravenous; voracious.Cormorant, devouring time. Shak.
CORMUS
See Corm.
CORN
A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees,by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome.Welkome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns,will have a bout with you. Shak.
CORNAGE
Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to givenotice of an invasion by blowing a horn.
CORNAMUTE
A cornemuse. [Obs.]
CORNBIND
A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis,Polygonum Convolvulus. [Prov. Eng.]
CORNCOB
The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow.[U.S.]
CORNCRAKE
A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grainfields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird.
CORNCRIB
A crib for storing corn.
CORNDODGER
A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a coveringof husks or paper, and baked under the embers. [U.S.] Bartlett.
CORNEA
The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which coversthe iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye.
CORNEAL
Pertaining to the cornea.
CORNEL
The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub withclusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edibledrupes resembling cherries.
CORNELIAN
Same as Carnelian.
CORNEMUSE
A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe. Drayton.
CORNEOCALCAREOUS
Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as someshells and corals.
CORNEOUS
Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard. Sir T. Browne.
CORNERCAP
The chief ornament. [Obs.]Thou makest the triumviry the cornercap of society. Shak.
CORNERED
1 Having corners or angles.
CORNERWISE
With the corner in front; diagonally; not square.
CORNET
See Coronet, 2.
CORNET-A-PISTON
A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished withvalves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet.
CORNETCY
The commission or rank of a cornet.
CORNETER
One who blows a cornet.
CORNEULE
One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.Carpenter.
CORNFIELD
A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, afield of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indiancorn.
CORNFLOOR
A thrashing floor. Hos. ix. 1.
CORNFLOWER
A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing ingrainfields.
CORNIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornusflorida).
CORNICE
Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection whichcrowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the corniceof an order, pedestal, door, window, or house. Gwilt. Cornice ring,the ring on a cannon next behind the muzzle ring.
CORNICED
Having a cornice.
CORNICLE
A little horn. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
CORNICULAR
A secretary or clerk. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CORNICULATE
Having processes resembling small horns.
CORNICULUM
A small hornlike part or process.
CORNIFEROUS
Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age.(Seethe Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been socalled from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize thelater part of the period, as developed in the State of New York.
CORNIFIC
Producing horns; forming horn.
CORNIFICATION
Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn.
CORNIFIED
Converted into horn; horny.
CORNIFORM
Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped.
CORNIGEROUS
Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
CORNIPLUME
A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds.
CORNISH
Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England. Cornish chough. SeeChough.-- Cornish engine, a single-acting pumping engine, used in mines, inCornwall and elsewhere, and for water works. A heavy pump rod orplunger, raised by the steam, forces up the water by its weight, indescending.
CORNIST
A performer on the cornet or horn.
CORNLOFT
A loft for corn; a granary.
CORNMUSE
A cornemuse.
CORNO DI BASSETTO
A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimesconfounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe.
CORNO INGLESE
A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch;the English horn.
CORNOPEAN
An obsolete name for the cornet-ร -piston.
CORNSHELLER
A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob.
CORNSHUCK
The husk covering an ear of Indian corn. [Colloq. U.S.]
CORNSTALK
A stalk of Indian corn.
CORNSTARCH
Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used forpuddings, etc.
CORNU
A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.
CORNU AMMONIS
A fossil shell, curved like a ram's horn; an obsolete name foran ammonite.
CORNUCOPIA
A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling thecornucopia in form.
CORNUTE
To bestow horns upon; to make a cuckold of; to cuckold. [Obs.]Burton.
CORNUTO
A man that wears the horns; a cuckold. [R.] Shak.
CORNUTOR
A cuckold maker. [R.] Jordan.
CORNY
Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn.Up stood the cornu reed. Milton.
COROCORE
A kind of boat of various forms, used in the IndianArchipelago.
CORODY
An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey orother religious house for the sustenance of such of the king'sservants as he may designate to receive it. [Written also corrody.]
COROL
A corolla.
COROLLA
The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds theorgans of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, calledpetals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness ofits texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note underBlossom.
COROLLACEOUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form ortexture of a corolla.
COROLLARY
Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.
COROLLET
A floret in an aggregate flower. [Obs.] Martyn.
COROLLINE
Of or pertaining to a corolla.
COROMANDEL
The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay ofBengal. Coromandel gooseberry. See Carambola.-- Coromandel wood, Calamander wood.
CORONA
The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side ofwhich is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. SeeIllust. of Column.
CORONACH
See Coranach.
CORONAL
Of or pertaining to the shell of a sea urchin. Coronal suture(Anat.), a suture extending across the skull between the parietal andfrontal bones; the frontoparietal suture.
CORONAMEN
The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet.
CORONARY
Resembling, or situated like, a crown or circlet; as, thecoronary arteries and veins of the heart.
CORONARY BONE
The small pastern bone of the horse and allied animals.
CORONARY CUSHION
A cushionlike band of vascular tissue at the upper border ofthe wall of the hoof of the horse and allied animals. It takes animportant part in the secretion of the horny walls.
CORONEL
A colonel. [Obs.] Spenser.
CORONER
An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire,with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden ormysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the bodyand at the place where the death occurred. [In England formerly alsowritten and pronounced crowner.]
CORONET
The upper part of a horse's hoof, where the horn terminates inskin. James White.
CORONETED
Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth orrank.
CORONIFORM
Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown.
CORONILLA
A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowersarranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets.
CORONIUM
The principal gaseous substance forming the solar corona,characterized by a green line in the coronal spectrum.
CORONOID
Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of thejaw, or of the ulna.
CORONULE
A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds.See Pappus. Martyn.
COROUN
Crown. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CORPORACE
See Corporas.
CORPORAL
A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant. In the UnitedStates army he is the lowest noncomissioned officer in a company ofinfantry. He places and relieves sentinels. Corporal's guard, adetachment such as would be in charge of a corporal for guard duty,etc.; hence, derisively, a very small number of persons.-- Lance corporal, an assistant corporal on private's pay. Farrow.-- Ship's corporal (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the masterat arms in his various duties.
CORPORALLY
In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present.Sharp.
CORPORALSHIP
A corporal's office.
CORPORAS
The corporal, or communion cloth. [Obs.] Fuller.
CORPORATE
To incorporate. [Obs.] Stow.
CORPORATION
A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law toact as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity ofsuccession; a society having the capacity of transacting business asan individual.
CORPORATOR
A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members.
CORPORATURE
The state of being embodied; bodily existence. [Obs.] Dr. H.More.
CORPOREAL
Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material bodyor substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial.His omnipotence That to corporeal substance could add Speed almostspiritual. Milton.Corporeal property, such as may be seen and handled (as opposed toincorporeal, which can not be seen or handled, and exists only incontemplation). Mozley & W.
CORPOREALISM
Materialism. Cudworth.
CORPOREALIST
One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; amaterialist.Some corporealists pretended . . . to make a world without a God. Bp.Berkeley.
CORPOREALITY
The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.
CORPOREALLY
In the body; in a bodily form or manner.
CORPOREALNESS
Corporeality; corporeity.
CORPOREITY
The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal;materiality.The one attributed corporeity to God. Bp. Stillingfleet.Those who deny light to be matter, do not therefore deny itscorporeity. Coleridge.
CORPORIFY
To embody; to form into a body. [Obs.] Boyle.
CORPOSANT
St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint.
CORPS
The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office isendowed. [Obs.]The prebendaries over and above their reserved rents have a corps.Bacon.Army corps, or (French) Corps d'armรฉe (k, a body containing two ormore divisions of a large army, organized as a complete army initself.-- Corps de logis (ke l Etym: [F., body of the house], the principalmass of a building, considered apart from its wings.-- Corps diplomatique (k Etym: [F., diplomatic body], the body ofministers or envoys accredited to a government.
CORPULENTLY
In a corpulent manner.
CORPUS
A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.Corpus callosum (k; pl. Corpora callosa (-s Etym: [NL., callous body](Anat.), the great band of commissural fibers uniting the cerebralhemispheries. See Brain.-- Corpus Christi (kr Etym: [L., body of Christ] (R. C. Ch.), afestival in honor of the eucharist, observed on the Thursday afterTrinity Sunday.-- Corpus Christi cloth. Same as Pyx cloth, under Pyx.-- Corpus delicti (d Etym: [L., the body of the crime] (Law), thesubstantial and fundamental fact of the comission of a crime; theproofs essential to establish a crime.-- Corpus luteum (l; pl. Corpora lutea (-. Etym: [NL., luteous body](Anat.), the reddish yellow mass which fills a ruptured Grafianfollicle in the mammalian ovary.-- Corpus striatum (str; pl. Corpora striata (-t. Etym: [NL.,striate body] (Anat.), a ridge in the wall of each lateral ventricleof the brain.
CORPUSCLE
A protoplasmic animal cell; esp., such as float free, likeblood, lymph, and pus corpuscles; or such as are imbedded in anintercellular matrix, like connective tissue and cartilagecorpuscles. See Blood.Virchow showed that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with thoseof connective tissue. Quain's Anat.Red blood corpuscles (Physiol.), in man, yellowish, biconcave,circular discs varying from 1/3500 to 1/3200 of an inch in diameterand about 1/12400 of an inch thick. They are composed of a colorlessstroma filled in with semifluid hรฆmoglobin and other matters. In mostmammals the red corpuscles are circular, but in the camels, birds,reptiles, and the lower vertebrates generally, they are oval, andsometimes more or less spherical in form. In Amphioxus, and mostinvertebrates, the blood corpuscles are all white or colorless.-- White blood corpuscles (Physiol.), rounded, slightly flattened,nucleated cells, mainly protoplasmic in composition, and possessed ofcontractile power. In man, the average size is about 1/2500 of aninch, and they are present in blood in much smaller numbers than thered corpuscles.
CORPUSCULAR
Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles.Corpuscular philosophy, that which attempts to account for thephenomena of nature, by the motion, figure, rest, position, etc., ofthe minute particles of matter.-- Corpuscular theory (Opt.), the theory enunciated by Sir IsaacNewton, that light consists in the emission and rapid progression ofminute particles or corpuscles. The theory is now generally rejected,and supplanted by the undulatory theory.
CORPUSCULARIAN
Corpuscular. [Obs.]
CORPUSCULE
A corpuscle. [Obs.]
CORPUSCULOUS
Corpuscular. Tyndall.
CORRADE
To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion.
CORRADIAL
Radiating to or from the same point. [R.] Coleridge.
CORRADIATE
To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays.
CORRADIATION
A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point. Bacom
CORRAL
A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, byemigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of securityfor horses, cattle, etc.
CORRASION
The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water,principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream,but also by the solvent action of the water.
CORRASIVE
Corrosive. [Obs.]Corrasive sores which eat into the flesh. Holland.
CORRECT
Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth,rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; nnot faulty orimperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views.Always use the most correct editions. Felton.
CORRECTIFY
To correct. [Obs.]When your worship's plassed to correctify a lady. Beau & Fl.
CORRECTIONAL
Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction;as, a correctional institution.
CORRECTIONER
One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction. [Obs.]Shak.
CORRECTLY
In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault orerror.
CORRECTNESS
The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness ofopinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writingor speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.
CORRECTOR
One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; acorrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids.
CORRECTORY
Containing or making correction; corrective.
CORRECTRESS
A woman who corrects.
CORREGIDOR
The chief magistrate of a Spanish town.
CORREI
A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies. "Fleetfoot on the correi." Sir W. Scott.
CORRELATABLE
Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena.
CORRELATE
To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related.Doctrine and worship correlate as theory and practice. Tylor.
CORRELATION
Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism ofrelation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving placeto, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation offorces, or of zymotic diseases. Correlation of energy, the relationto one another of different forms of energy; -- usually having somereference to the principle of conservation of energy. SeeConservation of energy, under Conservation.-- Correlation of forces, the relation between the forces whichmatter, endowed with various forms of energy, may exert.
CORRELATIVE
Having or indicating a reciprocal relation.Father and son, prince and subject, stranger and citizen, arecorrelative terms. Hume.
CORRELATIVELY
In a correlative relation.
CORRELATIVENESS
Quality of being correlative.
CORRELIGIONIST
A co-religion
CORREPTION
Chiding; reproof; reproach. [Obs.]Angry, passionate correption being rather apt to provoke, than toamend. Hammond.
CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL
A school that teaches by correspondence, the instruction beingbased on printed instruction sheets and the recitation papers writtenby the student in answer to the questions or requirements of thesesheets. In the broadest sense of the term correspondence school maybe used to include any educational institution or department forinstruction by correspondence, as in a university or othereducational bodies, but the term is commonly applied to variouseducational institutions organized on a commercial basis, some ofwhich offer a large variety of courses in general and technicalsubjects, conducted by specialists.
CORRESPONDENCY
Same as Correspondence, 3.The correspondencies of types and antitypes . . . may be veryreasonable confirmations. S. Clarke.
CORRESPONDENT
Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable;in accord or agreement; obedient; willing.Action correspondent or repugnant unto the law. Hooker.As fast the correspondent passions rise. Thomson.I will be correspondent to command. Shak.
CORRESPONDENTLY
In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably.
CORRESPONDINGLY
In a corresponding manner; conformably.
CORRESPONSIVE
Corresponding; conformable; adapted. Shak.-- Cor`re*spon"sive*ly, adv.
CORRIDOR
A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of ahouse.
CORRIDOR TRAIN
A train whose coaches are connected so as to have through itsentire length a continuous corridor, into which the compartmentsopen. [Eng.]
CORRIE
Same as Correi. [Scot.] Geikie.
CORRIGENDUM
A fault or error to be corrected.
CORRIGENT
A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify itsaction. Dunglison.
CORRIGIBILITY
Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected;corrigibleness.
CORRIGIBLENESS
The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility.
CORRIVAL
A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion. [R.]Shak.
CORRIVALRY
Corivalry. [R.]
CORRIVALSHIP
Corivalry. [R.]By the corrivalship of Shager his false friend. Sir T. Herbert.
CORRIVATE
To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams.[Obs.] Burton.
CORRIVATION
The flowing of different streams into one. [Obs.] Burton.
CORROBORANT
Strengthening; supporting; corroborating. Bacon.-- n.
CORROBORATE
Corroborated. [Obs.] Bacon.
CORROBORATIVE
Tending to strengthen of confirm.
CORROBORATORY
Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts.
CORROBORY
See Corroboree.
CORRODE
To have corrosive action; to be subject to corrosion. Corrodinglead, lead sufficiently pure to be used in making white lead by aprocess of corroding.
CORRODENT
Corrosive. [R.] Bp. King.
CORRODIATE
To eat away by degrees; to corrode. [Obs.] Sandys.
CORRODIBILITY
The qualityof being corrodible. [R.] Johnson.
CORRODIBLE
Capable of being corroded; corrosible. Sir T. Browne.
CORROSIBILITY
Corrodibility. "Corrosibility . . . answers corrosiveness."Boyle.
CORROSIBLE
Corrodible. Bailey.
CORROSIBLENESS
The quality or state of being corrosible. Bailey.
CORROSION
The action or effect of corrosive agents, or the process ofcorrosive change; as, the rusting of iron is a variety of corrosion.Corrosion is a particular species of dissolution of bodies, either byan acid or a saline menstruum. John Quincy.
CORROVAL
A dark brown substance of vegetable origin, allied to curare,and used by the natives of New Granada as an arrow poison.
CORROVALINE
A poisonous alkaloid extracted from corroval, and characterizedby its immediate action in paralyzing the heart.
CORRUGANT
Having the power of contracting into wrinkles. Johnson.
CORRUGATE
Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges andfurrows.
CORRUGATION
The act corrugating; contraction into wrinkles or alternateridges and grooves.
CORRUGATOR
A muscle which contracts the skin of the forehead intowrinkles.
CORRUGENT
Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator.[Obs.]
CORRUMP
To corrupt. See Corrupt. [Obs.] Chauser.
CORRUMPABLE
Corruptible. [Obs.]
CORRUPTER
One who corrupts; one who vitiates or taints; as, a corrupterof morals.
CORRUPTFUL
Tending to corrupt; full of corruption. [Obs.] "Corruptfulbribes." Spenser.
CORRUPTIBILITY
The quality of being corruptible; the possibility or liabilityof being corrupted; corruptibleness. Burke.
CORRUPTIBLE
That which may decay and perish; the human body. [Archaic] 1Cor. xv. 53.
CORRUPTINGLY
In a manner that corrupts.
CORRUPTIONIST
One who corrupts, or who upholds corruption. Sydney Smith.
CORRUPTIVE
Having the quality of taining or vitiating; tending to producecorruption.It should be endued with some corruptive quality for so speedy adissolution of the meat. Ray.
CORRUPTLESS
Not susceptible of corruption or decay; incorruptible. Dryden.
CORRUPTLY
In a corrupt manner; by means of corruption or corruptinginfluences; wronfully.
CORRUPTNESS
The quality of being corrupt.
CORRUPTRESS
A woman who corrupts.Thou studied old corruptress. Beau & Fl.
CORSAC
The corsak.
CORSAGE
The waist or bodice of a lady's dress; as. a low corsage.
CORSAK
A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in CentralAsia. [Written also corsac.]
CORSELET
The thorax of an insect.
CORSEPRESENT
An offering made to the church at the interment of a dead body.Blackstone.
CORSET
To inclose in corsets.
CORSLET
A corselet. [Obs.] Hakluyt.
CORSNED
The morsel of execration; a species of ordeal consisting in theeating of a piece of bread consecrated by imprecation. If thesuspected person ate it freely, he was pronounced innocent; but if itstuck in his throat, it was considered as a proof of his guilt.Burril.
CORTEGE
A train of attendants; a procession.
CORTES
The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, andrepresentatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, insome measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain.
CORTES GERAES
See Legislature, Portugal.
CORTEX
Bark; rind; specifically, cinchona bark.
CORTICAL
Belonging to, or consisting of, bark or rind; resembling barkor rind; external; outer; superficial; as, the cortical substance ofthe kidney.
CORTICIFER
One of the Gorgoniacea; -- so called because the fleshy partsurrounds a solid axis, like a bark.
CORTICIFEROUS
Having a barklike c
CORTICIFORM
Resembling, or having the form of, bark or rind.
CORTICINE
A material for carpeting or floor covering, made of ground corkand caoutchouc or India rubber.
CORTICOSE
Abounding in bark; resembling bark; barky.
CORTICOUS
Relating to, or resembling, bark; corticose.
CORTILE
An open internal courtyard inclosed by the walls of a largedwelling house or other large and stately building.
CORUNDUM
The earth alumina, as found native in a crystalline state,including sapphire, which is the fine blue variety; the orientalruby, or red sapphire; the oriental amethyst, or purple sapphire; andadamantine spar, the hair-brown variety. It is the hardest substancefound native, next to the diamond.
CORUSCANT
Glittering in flashes; flashing. Howell.
CORUSCATE
To glitter in flashes; to flash.
CORVE
See Corf.
CORVEE
An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair ofroads, for the lord or sovereign.
CORVEN
p. p. of Carve. Chaucer.
CORVETTO
A curvet. Peacham.
CORVINE
Of or pertaining to the crow; crowlike.
CORVORANT
See Cormorant.
CORYBANT
One of the priests of Cybele in Phrygia. The rites of theCorybants were accompanied by wild music, dancing, etc.
CORYBANTIASM
A kind of frenzy in which the patient is tormented by fantasticvisions and want of sleep. Dunglison.
CORYBANTIC
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or theirrites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance.
CORYMBED
Corymbose.
CORYMBIFEROUS
Bearing corymbs of flowers or fruit.
CORYMBOSE
Consisting of corymbs, or resembling them in form. [Writtenalso corymbous.]
CORYMBOSELY
In corymbs.
CORYPHAENOID
Belonging to, or like, the genus Coryphรฆna. See Dolphin.
CORYPHEE
A ballet dancer.
CORYPHENE
A fish of the genus Coryphรฆna. See Dolphin. (2)
CORYPHEUS
The conductor, chief, or leader of the dramatic chorus; hence,the chief or leader of a party or interest.That noted corypheus [Dr. John Owen] of the Independent faction.South.
CORYPHODON
A genus of extinct mammals from the eocene tertiary of Europeand America. Its species varied in size between the tapir andrhinoceros, and were allied to those animals, but had short,plantigrade, five-toed feet, like the elephant.
CORYPHODONT
Pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Coryphodon.
CORYZA
Nasal catarrh.
COSCINOMANCY
Divination by means of a suspended sieve.
COSCOROBA
A large, white, South American duck, of the genus Cascoroba,resembling a swan.
COSECANT
The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. ofFunctions.
COSEN
See Cozen.
COSENAGE
See Cozenage.
COSENING
Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properlydesignated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts ornot. Burrill.
COSENTIENT
Perceiving together.
COSEY
See Cozy. Dickens.
COSHER
To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat atthe expense of. See Coshering.
COSHERER
One who coshers.
COSHERING
A feudal prerogative of the lord of the soil entitling him tolodging and food at his tenant's house. Burrill.Sometimes he contrived, in deflance of the law, to live by coshering,that is to say, by quartering himself on the old tentants of hisfamily, who, wretched as was their own condition, could not refuse aportion of their pittance to one whom they still regarded as theirrightful lord. Macaulay.
COSIER
A tailor who botches his work. [Obs.] Shak.
COSIGNIFICATIVE
Having the same signification. Cockerham.
COSIGNITARY
Signing some important public document with another or withothers; as, a treaty violated by one of the cosignitary powers.
COSILY
See Cozily.
COSINE
The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. ofFunctions.
COSMETIC
Any external application intended to beautify and improve thecomplexion.
COSMICALLY
Belonging to cosmogony. B. Powell. Gladstone.
COSMOGONIST
One who treats of the origin of the universe; one versed incosmogony.
COSMOGONY
The creation of the world or universe; a theory or account ofsuch creation; as, the poetical cosmogony of Hesoid; the cosmogoniesof Thales, Anaxagoras, and Plato.The cosmogony or creation of the world has puzzled philosophers ofall ages. Goldsmith.
COSMOGRAPHER
One who describes the world or universe, including the heavensand the earth.The name of this island is nowhere found among the old and ancientcosmographers. Robynson (More's Utopia).
COSMOGRAPHICALLY
In a cosmographic manner; in accordance with cosmography.
COSMOGRAPHY
A description of the world or of the universe; or the sciencewhich teaches the constitution of the whole system of worlds, or thefigure, disposition, and relation of all its parts.
COSMOLABE
An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used formeasuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called alsopantacosm.
COSMOLATRY
Worship paid to the world. Cudworth.
COSMOLINE
A substance obtained from the residues of the distillation ofpetroleum, essentially the same as vaseline, but of somewhat stifferconsistency, and consisting of a mixture of the higher paraffines; akind of petroleum jelly.
COSMOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to cosmology.
COSMOLOGIST
One who describes the universe; one skilled in cosmology.
COSMOLOGY
The science of the world or universe; or a treatise relating tothe structure and parts of the system of creation, the elements ofbodies, the modifications of material things, the laws of motion, andthe order and course of nature.
COSMOMETRY
The art of measuring the world or the universe. Blount.
COSMOPLASTIC
Pertaining to a plastic force as operative in the formation ofthe world independently of God; world-forming. "Cosmoplastic andhylozoic atheisms." Gudworth.
COSMOPOLITANISM
The quality of being cosmopolitan; cosmopolitism.
COSMOPOLITE
See Cosmopolitan.
COSMOPOLITICAL
Having the character of a cosmopolite. [R.] Hackluyt.
COSMOPOLITISM
The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard ofnational or local peculiarities and prejudices.
COSMORAMA
An exhibition in which a series of views in various parts ofthe world is seen reflected by mirrors through a series of lenses,with such illumination, etc., as will make the views most closelyrepresent reality.
COSMORAMIC
Of or pertaining to a cosmorama.
COSMOSPHERE
An apparattus for showing the position of the earth, at anygiven time, with respect to the fixed stars. It consist of a hollowglass globe, on which are depicted the stars and constellations, andwithin which is a terrestrial globe.
COSMOTHEISM
Same as Pantheism. [R.]
COSMOTHETIC
Assuming or positing the actual existence or reality of thephysical or external world. Cosmothetic idealists (Metaph.), thosewho assume, without attempting to prove, the reality of externalobjects as corresponding to, and being the ground of, the ideas ofwhich only the mind has direct cognizance.The cosmothetic idealists . . . deny that mind is immediatelyconscious of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.
COSOVEREIGN
A joint sovereign.
COSS
A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half totwo English miles. Whitworth.
COSSACK
One of a warlike, pastoral people, skillful as horsemen,inhabiting different parts of the Russian empire and furnishingvaluable contingents of irregular cavalry to its armies, those ofLittle Russia and those of the Don forming the principal divisions.
COSSACK POST
An outpost consisting of four men, forming one of a single lineof posts substituted for the more formal line of sentinels and lineof pickets.
COSSAS
Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths.
COSSET
A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, ingeneral.
COSSETTE
One of the small chips or slices into which beets are cut insugar making.
COST
See Cottise.
COSTA
A rib of an animal or a human being.
COSTAGE
Expense; cost. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COSTAL
Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costalnerves.
COSTAL-NERVED
Having the nerves spring from the midrib.
COSTARDMONGER
A costermonger.
COSTEAN
To search after lodes. See Costeaning.
COSTEANING
The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes. Itconsist in sinking small pits through the superficial deposits to thesolid rock, and then driving from one pit to another across thedirection of the vein, in such manner as to cross all the veinsbetween the two pits.
COSTELLATE
Finely ribbed or costated.
COSTER
One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc.
COSTERMONGER
An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruitor vegetables; a fruiterer. [Written also costardmonger.]
COSTIFEROUS
Rib-bearing, as the dorsal vertebrรฆ.
COSTIVELY
In a costive manner.
COSTLESS
Costing nothing.
COSTLEWE
Costly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COSTLINESS
The quality of being costy; expensiveness; sumptuousness.
COSTMARY
A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strongbalsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herband salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost.
COSTON LIGHTS
Signals made by burning lights of different colors and used byvessels at sea, and in the life-saving service; -- named after theirinventor.
COSTOTOME
An instrument (chisel or shears) to cut the ribs and open thethoracic cavity, in post-mortem examinations and dissections. Knight.
COSTREL
A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by whichit was suspended at the side. [Archaic]A youth, that, following with a costrel, bore The means of goodlywelcome, flesh and wine. Tennyson.
COSTUMER
One who makes or deals in costumes, as for theaters, fancyballs, etc.
COSUPREME
A partaker of supremacy; one jointly supreme. Shak.
COSURETY
One who is surety with another.
COSY
See Cozy.
COT
A small, rudely-formed boat. Bell cot. (Arch.) See under Bell.
COTANGENT
The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust.of Functions.
COTARNINE
A white, crystalline substance, C12H13NO3, obtained as aproduct of the decomposition of narcotine. It has weak basicproperties, and is usually regarded as an alkaloid.
COTE
To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and getbefore; as, a dog cotes a hare. [Obs.] Drayton.We coted them on the way, and hither are they coming. Shak.
COTEMPORANEOUS
Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous.-- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n.
COTEMPORARY
Living or being at the same time; contemporary.
COTENANT
A tenant in common, or a joint tenant.
COTERIE
A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social,literary, or other purposes; a clique. "The queen of your coterie."Thackeray.
COTERMINOUS
Bordering; conterminous; -- followed by with.
COTGARE
Refuse wool. [Obs. or Prov.]
COTHURN
A buskin anciently used by tragic actors on the stage; hence,tragedy in general.The moment had arrived when it was thought that the mask and thecothurn might be assumed with effect. Motley.
COTHURNUS
Same as Cothurn.
COTICULAR
Pertaining to whetstones; like or suitable for whetstones.
COTIDAL
Marking an equality in the tides; having high tide at the sametime. Cotidal lines (Phys. Geog.), lines on a map passing throughplaces that have high tide at the same time.
COTINGA
A bird of the family Cotingidรฆ, including numerous bright-colored South American species; -- called also chatterers.
COTISE
See Cottise.
COTISED
See Cottised.
COTLAND
Land appendant to a cot or cottage, or held by a cottager orcotter.
COTQUEANITY
The condition, character, or conduct of a cotquean. [Obs.] B.Jonson.
COTRUSTEE
A joint trustee.
COTSWOLD
An open country abounding in sheepcotes, as in the Cotswoldhills, in Gloucestershire, England. Cotswold sheep, a long-wooledbreed of sheep, formerly common in the counties of Gloucester,Hereford, and Worcester, Eng.; -- so called from the Cotswold Hills.The breed is now chiefly amalgamated with others.
COTTA
A surplice, in England and America usually one shorter and lessfull than the ordinary surplice and with short sleeves, or sometimesnone.
COTTAGE
A small house; a cot; a hut.
COTTAGED
Set or covered with cottages.Even humble Harting's cottaged vale. Collins.
COTTAGELY
Cottagelike; suitable for a cottage; rustic. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
COTTAGER
One who lives on the common, without paying any rent, or havingland of his own.
COTTER
To fasten with a cotter.
COTTIER
In Great Britain and Ireland, a person who hires a smallcottage, with or without a plot of land. Cottiers commonly aid in thework of the landlord's farm. [Written also cottar and cotter.]
COTTISE
A diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area orone quarter the area of the bend. When a single cottise is used aloneit is often called a cost. See also Couple-close.
COTTISED
Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between twobarrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.
COTTOID
Like a fish of the genus Cottus.-- n.
COTTOLENE
A product from cottonseed, used as lard.
COTTON BATTING
Cotton prepared in sheets or rolls for quilting, upholstering,and similar purposes.
COTTON STATE
Alabama; -- a nickname.
COTTONADE
A somewhat stoun and thick fabric of cotton.
COTTONARY
Relating to, or composed of, cotton; cottony. [Obs.]Cottomary and woolly pillows. Sir T. Browne.
COTTONOUS
Resembling cotton. [R.] Evelyn.
COTTONSEED MEAL
A meal made from hulled cotton seeds after the oil has beenexpressed.
COTTONSEED OIL
A fixed, semidrying oil extracted from cottonseed. It is paleyellow when pure (sp. gr., .92-.93). and is extensively used in soapmaking, in cookery, and as an adulterant of other oils.
COTTONTAIL
The American wood rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus); -- also calledMolly cottontail.
COTTONWEED
See Cudweed.
COTTONWOOD
An American tree of the genus Populus or polar, having theseeds covered with abundant cottonlike hairs; esp., the P. moniliferaand P. angustifolia of the Western United States.
COTTREL
A trammel, or hook to support a pot over a fire. Knight.
COTYLEDON
One of the patches of villi found in some forms of placenta.
COTYLEDONAL
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cotyledon.
COTYLEDONARY
Having a cotyledon; tufted; as, the cotyledonary placenta ofthe cow.
COTYLEDONOUS
Of or pertaining to a cotyledon or cotyledons; having a seedlobe.
COTYLIFORM
Shaped like a cotyle or a cup.
COTYLIGEROUS
Having cotyles.
COUCAL
A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, ofseveral species.
COUCH
To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wireclotch mold to a felt blanket, for further drying.
COUCH GRASS
See Quitch grass.
COUCHANCY
State of lying down for repose. [R.]
COUCHANT
Lying down with the head raised, which distinguishes theposture of couchant from that of dormant, or sleeping; -- said of alion or other beast. Couchant and levant (Law), rising up and lyingdown; -- said of beasts, and indicating that they have been longenough on land, not belonging to their owner, to lie down and rise upto feed, -- such time being held to include a day and night at theleast. Blackstone.
COUCHED
Same as Couch.
COUCHEE
A reception held at the time of going to bed, as by a sovereignor great prince. [Obs.] Dryden.The duke's levees and couchees were so crowded that the antechamberswere full. Bp. Burnet.
COUCHER
One who couches paper.
COUCHING
The operation of putting down or displacing the opaque lens incataract.
COUCHLESS
Having no couch or bed.
COUDEE
A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end ofthe middle finger; a cubit.
COUGAR
An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling theAfrican panther in size and habits. Its color is tawny, withoutspots; hence writers often called it the American lion. Called alsopuma, panther, mountain lion, and catamount. See Puma.
COUGH
To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from thelungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner.
COUGHER
One who coughs.
COUHAGE
See Cowhage.
COULD
Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible.Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditionalpresent.
COULEE
A stream; (Geol.)
COULOIR
A dredging machine for excavating canals, etc.
COULOMB
The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements. It isthe quantity of electricity conveyed in one second by the currentproduced by an electro-motive force of one volt acting in a circuithaving a resistance of one ohm, or the quantitty transferred by oneampรจre in one second. Formerly called weber.
COULOMB METER
Any instrument by which electricity can be measured incoulombs.
COULTER
Same as Colter.
COULTERNEB
The puffin.
COULURE
A disease affecting grapes, esp. in California, manifested bythe premature dropping of the fruit.
COUMARIC
Relating to, derived from, or like, the Dipterix odorata, atree of Guiana. Coumaric acid (Chem.), one of a series of aromaticacids, related to cinnamic acid, the most important of which is awhite crystalline substance, HO.C6H4.C2H2.CO2H, obtained from thetonka bean, sweet clover, etc., and also produced artifically.
COUMARIN
The concrete essence of the tonka bean, the fruit of Dipterix(formerly Coumarouna) odorata and consisting essentially of coumarinproper, which is a white crystalline substance, C9H6O2, of vanilla-like odor, regarded as an anhydride of coumaric acid, and used inflavoring. Coumarin in also made artificially.
COUMAROU
The tree (Dipteryx odorata) which bears the tonka bean; also,the bean itself.
COUNCILIST
One who belong to a council; one who gives an opinion. [Obs.]I will in three months be an expert counsilist. Milton.
COUNCILMAN
A member of a council, especially of the common council of acity; a councilor.
COUNCILOR
A member of a council. [Written also councillor.]
COUNSELORSHIP
The function and rank or office of a counselor. Bacon.
COUNT
To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count.Burrill.
COUNT-WHEEL
The wheel in a clock which regulates the number of strokes.
COUNTABLE
Capable of being numbered.
COUNTENANCER
One who countenances, favors, or supports.
COUNTER
A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as,counteract, counterbalance, countercheck. See Counter, adv. & a.
COUNTER BRACE
The brace of the fore-topsail on the leeward side of a vessel.
COUNTER TENOR
One of the middle parts in music, between the tenor and thetreble; high tenor. Counter-tenor clef (Mus.), the C clef when placedon the third line; -- also called alto clef.
COUNTER WEIGHT
A counterpoise.
COUNTER-COMPONY
See Compony.
COUNTER-COUCHANT
Lying down, with their heads in opposite directions; -- said ofanimals borne in a coat of arms.
COUNTER-COURANT
Running in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in acoast of arms.
COUNTER-PALY
Paly, and then divided fesswise, so that each vertical piece iscut into two, having the colors used alternately or counterchanged.Thus the escutcheon in the illustration may also be blazoned paly ofsix per fess counterchanged argent and azure.
COUNTER-ROLL
A duplicate roll (record or account) kept by an officer as acheck upon another officer's roll. Burrill.
COUNTER-SALIENT
Leaping from each other; -- said of two figures on a coast ofarms.
COUNTERACT
To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, bycontrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect ofmedicines; to counteract good advice.
COUNTERACTION
Action in opposition; hindrance resistance.[They] do not . . . overcome the counteraction of a false principleor of stubborn partiality. Johnson.
COUNTERACTIVE
Tending to counteract.
COUNTERACTIVELY
By counteraction.
COUNTERBALANCE
To oppose with an equal weight or power; to counteract thepower or effect of; to countervail; to equiponderate; to balance.The remaining air was not able to counterbalance the mercurialcylinder. Boyle.The cstudy of mind is necessary to counterbalance and correct theinfluence of the study of nature. Sir W. Hamilton.
COUNTERBORE
To form a counterbore in, by boring, turning, or drilling; toenlarge, as a hole, by means of a counterbore.
COUNTERBRACE
To brace in opposite directions; as, to counterbrace the yards,i. e., to brace the head yards one way and the after yards another.
COUNTERBUFF
To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop bya blow or impulse in front. Dryden.
COUNTERCAST
A trick; a delusive contrivance. [Obs.] Spenser.
COUNTERCASTER
A caster of accounts; a reckoner; a bookkeeper; -- usedconteptuously.
COUNTERCHANGE
Exchange; reciprocation.
COUNTERCHANGED
Having the tinctures exchanged mutually; thus, if the field isdivided palewise, or and azure, and cross is borne counterchanged,that part of the cross which comes on the azure side will be or, andthat on the or side will be azure.
COUNTERCHARGE
An opposing charge.
COUNTERCHARM
To destroy the effect of a charm upon.
COUNTERCHECK
To oppose or check by some obstacle; to check by a returncheck.
COUNTERCLAIM
A claim made by a person as an offset to a claim made on him.
COUNTERCURRENT
Running in an opposite direction.
COUNTERDRAW
To copy, as a design or painting, by tracing with a pencil onoiled paper, or other transparent substance.
COUNTERFAISANCE
See Counterfesance. [Obs.]
COUNTERFEITLY
By forgery; falsely.
COUNTERFESANCE
The act of forging; forgery. [Obs.] [Written alsocounterfaisance.]
COUNTERFLEURY
Counterflory.
COUNTERFLORY
Adorned with flowers (usually fleurs-de-lis) so divided thatthe tops appear on one side and the bottoms on the others; -- said ofany ordinary.
COUNTERFORCE
An opposing force.
COUNTERFORT
A kind of buttress of masonry to strengthen a revetment wall.
COUNTERGAGE
An adjustable gage, with double points for transferringmeasurements from one timber to another, as the breadth of a mortiseto the place where the tenon is to be made. Knight.
COUNTERGLOW
An exceedingly faint roundish or somewhat oblong nebulous lightnear the ecliptic and opposite the sun, best seen during Septemberand October, when in the constellations Sagittarius and Pisces. Itscause is not yet understood. Called also Gegenschein.
COUNTERGUARD
A low outwork before a bastion or ravelin, consisting of twolines of rampart parallel to the faces of the bastion, and protectingthem from a breaching fire.
COUNTERIRRITATE
To produce counter irritation in; to treat with one morbidprocess for the purpose of curing another.
COUNTERJUMPER
A salesman in a shop; a shopman; -- used contemtuously. [Slang]
COUNTERMAN
A man who attends at the counter of a shop to sell goods.[Eng.]
COUNTERMAND
A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command.Have you no countermand for Claudio yet, But he must die to-morrowShak.
COUNTERMANDABLE
Capable of being countermanded; revocable. Bacon.
COUNTERMARCH
To march back, or to march in reversed order.The two armies marched and countermarched, drew near and receded.Macaulay.
COUNTERMARK
An artificial cavity made in the teeth of horses that haveoutgrown their natural mark, to disguise their age.
COUNTERMINE
An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy themining of an enemy.
COUNTERMOVE
To move in a contrary direction to.
COUNTERMURE
A wall raised behind another, to supply its place when breachedor destroyed. [R.] Cf. Contramure. Knolles.
COUNTERNATURAL
Contrary to nature. [R.] Harvey.
COUNTERPANE
A coverlet for a bed, -- originally stitched or woven insquares or figures.On which a tissue counterpane was cast. Drayton.
COUNTERPART
One of two corresponding copies of an instrument; a duplicate.
COUNTERPASSANT
Passant in opposite directions; -- said of two animals.
COUNTERPLEAD
To plead the contrary of; to plead against; to deny.
COUNTERPLOT
To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt tofrustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.Every wile had proved abortive, every plot had been counterplotted.De Quinsey.
COUNTERPOINT
An opposite point [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
COUNTERPOLE
The exact opposite.The German prose offers the counterpole to the French style. DeQuincey.
COUNTERPONDERATE
TO equal in weight; to counterpoise; to equiponderate.
COUNTERPROVE
To take a counter proof of, or a copy in reverse, by taking animpression directly from the face of an original. See Counter proof,under Counter.
COUNTERROLMENT
A counter account. See Control. [Obs.] Bacon.
COUNTERSCALE
Counterbalance; balance, as of one scale against another.[Obs.] Howell.
COUNTERSCARF
The exterior slope or wall of the ditch; -- sometimes, thewhole covered way, beyond the ditch, with its parapet and glacis; as,the enemy have lodged themselves on the counterscarp.
COUNTERSEAL
To seal or ratify with another or others. Shak.
COUNTERSECURE
To give additional security to or for. Burke.
COUNTERSHAFT
An intermediate shaft; esp., one which receives motion from aline shaft in a factory and transmits it to a machine.
COUNTERSIGN
To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing);hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal orsuperior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing.
COUNTERSTAND
Resistance; opposition; a stand against.Making counterstand to Robert Guiscard. Longfellow.
COUNTERSTEP
A contrary method of procedure; opposite course of action.
COUNTERSTOCK
See Counterfoil.
COUNTERSTROKE
A stroke or blow in return. Spenser.
COUNTERSWAY
A swaying in a contrary direction; an opposing influence.[Obs.]A countersway of restraint, curbing their wild exorbitance. Milton.
COUNTERTERM
A term or word which is the opposite of, or antithesis to,another; an antonym; -- the opposite of synonym; as, "foe" is thecounterterm of "friend". C. J. Smith.
COUNTERTIME
The resistance of a horse, that interrupts his cadence and themeasure of his manege, occasioned by a bad horseman, or the badtemper of the horse.
COUNTERTRIPPANT
Trippant in opposite directions. See Trippant.
COUNTERTRIPPING
Same as Countertrippant.
COUNTERTURN
The critical moment in a play, when, contrary to expectation,the action is embroiled in new difficulties. Dryden.
COUNTERVAIL
To act against with equal force, power, or effect; to thwart orovercome by such action; to furnish an equivalent to or for; tocounterbalance; to compensate.Upon balancing the account, the profit at last will hardlycountervail the inconveniences that go allong with it. L'Estrange.
COUNTERVALLATION
See Contravallation.
COUNTERVOTE
To vote in opposition ti; to balance or overcome by viting; tooutvote. Dr. J. Scott.
COUNTERWAIT
To wait or watch for; to be on guard against. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COUNTERWEIGH
To weigh against; to counterbalance.
COUNTERWHEEL
To cause to wheel or turn in an opposite direction.
COUNTERWORK
To work in oppositeion to; to counteract.That counterworksh folly and caprice. Pope.
COUNTESS
The wife of an earl in the British peerage, or of a count inthe Continental nobility; also, a lady possessed of the same dignityin her own right. See the Note under Count.
COUNTLESS
Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable.
COUNTOR
An advocate or professional pleader; one who counted for hisclient, that is, orally pleaded his cause. [Obs.] Burrill.
COUNTRE-
Same as prefix Counter-. [Obs.]
COUNTREPLETE
To counterplead. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COUNTRETAILLE
A counter tally; correspondence (in sound). [Obs.] At thecountretaille, in return. Chaucer.
COUNTRIFIED
Having the appearance and manners of a rustic; rude.As being one who took no pride, And was a deal too countrified.Lloyd.
COUNTRIFY
To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic. Lamb.
COUNTRY
The rock through which a vein runs. Conclusion to the country.See under Conclusion.-- To put, or throw, one's self upon the country, to appeal to one'sconstituents; to stand trial before a jury.
COUNTRY BANK
A national bank not in a reserve city. [Colloq., U. S.]
COUNTRY CLUB
A club usually located in the suburbs or vicinity of a city ortown and devoted mainly to outdoor sports.
COUNTRY COUSIN
A relative from the country visiting the city and unfamiliarwith city manners and sights.
COUNTRY SEAT
A dwelling in the country, used as a place of retirement fromthe city.
COUNTRY-BASE
Same as Prison base.
COUNTRY-DANCE
See Contradance.He had introduced the English country-dance to the knowledge of theDutch ladies. Macualay.
COUNTRYSIDE
A particular rural district; a country neighborhood. [Eng.] W.Black. Blackmore.
COUNTRYWOMAN
A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to thecity; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with anothernative or inhabitant. Shak.
COUP
A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a termused in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force. Coupde grace (ke gr Etym: [F.], the stroke of mercy with which anexecutioner ends by death the sufferings of the condemned; hence, adecisive, finishing stroke.-- Coup de main (ke m Etym: [F.] (Mil.), a sudden and unexpectedmovement or attack.-- Coup de soleil (k Etym: [F.] (Med.), a sunstroke. See Sunstroke.-- Coup d'รฉtat (k Etym: [F.] (Politics), a sudden, decisive exerciseof power whereby the existing government is subverted without theconsent of the people; an unexpected measure of state, more or lessviolent; a stroke of policy.-- Coup d'oeil (k. Etym: [F.] (a) A single view; a rapid glance ofthe eye; a comprehensive view of a scene; as much as can be seen atone view. (b) The general effect of a picture. (c) (Mil.) The facultyor the act of comprehending at a glance the weakness or strength of amilitary position, of a certain arrangement of troops, the mostadvantageous position for a battlefield, etc.
COUPABLE
Culpable. [Obs.]
COUPE-GORGE
Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troopsoccupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces. Farrow.
COUPED
Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- usedespecially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased.
COUPEE
A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raisedfrom the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made.Chambers.
COUPLE
See Couple-close.
COUPLE-BEGGAR
One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other.Swift.
COUPLE-CLOSE
A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of itssurface. Couple-closes are generally borne one on each side of achevron, and the blazoning may then be either a chevron between twocouple-closes or chevron cottised.
COUPLEMENT
Union; combination; a coupling; a pair. [Obs.] Shak.And forth together rode, a goodly couplement. Spenser.
COUPLER
One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, orshackle, to connect cars. Coupler of an organ, a contrivance by whichany two or more of the ranks of keys, or keys and pedals, areconnected so as to act together when the organ is played.
COUPLET
Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines ofverse that rhyme with each other.A sudden couplet rushes on your mind. Crabbe.
COUPLING
A device or contrivance which serves to couple or connectadjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects theends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; ashaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts. Box coupling,Chain coupling. See under Box, Chain.-- Coupling box, a coupling shaped like a journal box, for clampingtogether the ends of two shafts, so that they may revolve together.-- Coupling pin, a pin or bolt used in coupling or joining togetherrailroad cars, etc.
COUPON
A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom oftransferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term ofyears, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when theinterest is due; an interest warrant.
COUPSTICK
A stick or switch used among some American Indians in making orcounting a coup.
COUPURE
A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by thebesieged. Wilhelm.
COURAGE
To inspire with courage. [Obs.]Paul writeth unto Timothy . . . to courage him. Tyndale.
COURAGEOUS
Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold.With this victory, the women became most courageous and proud, andthe men waxed . . . fearful and desperate. Stow.
COURAGEOUSLY
In a courageous manner.
COURAGEOUSNESS
The quality of being courageous; courage.
COURANT
Represented as running; -- said of a beast borne in a coat ofarms.
COURANTO
A sprightly dance; a coranto; a courant.
COURAP
A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetualitching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face.
COURB
Curved; rounded. [Obs.]Her neck is short, her shoulders courb. Gower.
COURBARIL
See Animรฉ, n.
COURCHE
A square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of acap; a kerchief. [Scot.] [Written also curch.] Jamieson.
COURLAN
A South American bird, of the genus Aramus, allied to therails.
COURSE
A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same heightthroughout the face or faces of a building. Gwilt.
COURSER
A grallatorial bird of Europe (Cursorius cursor), remarkablefor its speed in running. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied torunning birds of the Ostrich family.
COURSEY
A space in the galley; a part of the hatches. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
COURSING
The pursuit or running game with dogs that follow by sightinstead of by scent.In coursing of a deer, or hart, with greyhounds. Bacon
COURT TENNIS
See under Tennis.
COURT-BARON
An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor,and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse.
COURT-CRAFT
The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts.
COURT-CUPBOARD
A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and otherarticles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions. [Obs.]A way with the joint stools, remove the court-cupboard, look to theplate. Shak.
COURT-LEET
A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred,lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet. Blackstone.
COURT-MARTIAL
A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trialof one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against militaryor naval law.
COURT-PLASTER
Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one sidewith some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass andglycerin.
COURTBRED
Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly.
COURTELLE
a wool-like fabric.[WordNet 1.5]
COURTEOUS
Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or exxpressive of,courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred;polite; affable; complaisant.A patient and courteous bearing. Prescott.His behavior toward his people is grave and courteous. Fuller.
COURTEOUSLY
In a courteous manner.
COURTEOUSNESS
The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy.
COURTEPY
A short coat of coarse cloth. [Obs.]Full threadbare was his overeste courtepy. Chaucer.
COURTER
One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits inmarriage; one who flatters and cajoles. Sherwood.
COURTESAN
A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; aharlot.Lasciviously decked like a courtesan. Sir H. Wotton.
COURTESANSHIP
Harlotry.
COURTESY
An act of civility, respect, or reverence, made by women,consisting of a slight depression or dropping of the body, withbending of the kness. [Written also curtsy.]The lady drops a courtesy in token of obedience, and the ceremonyproceeds as usual. Golgsmith.
COURTIERY
The manners of a courtier; courtliness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
COURTLIKE
After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly.
COURTLINESS
The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners.
COURTLING
A sycophantic courtier. B. Jonson.
COURTLY
In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly.They can produce nothing so courtly writ. Dryden
COURTYARD
A court or inclosure attached to a house.
COUSCOUS
A kind of food used by the natives of Western Africa, made ofmillet flour with flesh, and leaves of the baobab; -- called alsolalo.
COUSCOUSOU
A favorite dish in Barbary. See Couscous.
COUSIN
Allied; akin. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COUSIN-GERMAN
A first cousin. See Note under Cousin, 1.
COUSINAGE
Relationship; kinship. [Obs.] Wyclif.
COUSINHOOD
The state or condition of a cousin; also, the collective bodyof cousins; kinsfolk.
COUSINLY
Like or becoming a cousin.
COUSINRY
A body or collection of cousins; the whole number of personswho stand in the relation of cousins to a given person or persons.
COUSINSHIP
The relationship of cousins; state of being cousins;cousinhood. G. Eliot.
COUTEAU
A knife; a dagger.
COUTH
Could; was able; knew or known; understood. [Obs.]Above all other one Daniel He loveth, for he couth well Divine, thatnone other couth; To him were all thing couth, As he had it of God'sgrace. Gower.
COUVADE
A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a womangives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill.The world-wide custom of the couvade, where at childbirth the husbandundergoes medical treatment, in many cases being put to bed for days.Tylor.
COUVEUSE
An incubator for sickly infants, esp. those prematurely born.
COVARIANT
A function involving the coefficients and the variables of aquantic, and such that when the quantic is lineally transformed thesame function of the new variables and coefficients shall be equal tothe old function multiplied by a factor. An invariant is a likefunction involving only the coefficients of the quantic.
COVE
To arch over; to build in a hollow concave form; to make in theform of a cove.The mosques and other buildings of the Arabians are rounded intodomes and coved roofs. H. Swinburne.Coved ceiling, a ceiling, the part of which next the wail isconstructed in a cove.-- Coved vault, a vault composed of four coves meeting in a centralpoint, and therefore the reverse of a groined vault.
COVENABLE
Fit; proper; suitable. [Obs.] "A covenable day." Wyclif (Markvi. 21).
COVENABLY
Fitly; suitably. [Obs.] "Well and covenably." Chaucer.
COVENANT
An agreement made by the Scottish Parliament in 1638, and bythe English Parliament in 1643, to preserve the reformed religion inScotland, and to extirpate popery and prelacy; -- usually called the"Solemn League and Covenant."He [Wharton] was born in the days of the Covenant, and was the heirof a covenanted house. Macualay.
COVENANTEE
The person in whose favor a covenant is made.
COVENANTER
One who subscribed and defended the "Solemn League andCovenant." See Covenant.
COVENANTING
Belonging to a covenant. Specifically, belonging to the ScotchCovenanters.Be they covenanting traitors, Or the brood of false Argyle Aytoun.
COVENANTOR
The party who makes a covenant. Burrill.
COVENOUS
See Covinous, and Covin.
COVENT
A convent or monastery. [Obs.] Bale. Covent Garden, a largesquare in London, so called because originally it was the garden of amonastery.
COVENTRY
A town in the county of Warwick, England. To send to Coventry,to exclude from society; to shut out from social intercourse, as forungentlemanly conduct.-- Coventry blue, blue thread of a superior dye, made at Coventry,England, and used for embroidery.
COVER
The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game;covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover.
COVER CROP
A catch crop planted, esp. in orchards. as a protection to thesoil in winter, as well as for the benefit of the soil when plowedunder in spring.
COVER-POINT
The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports"point."
COVER-SHAME
Something used to conceal infamy. [Obs.] Dryden.
COVERAGE
The aggregate of risks covered by the terms of a contract ofinsurance.
COVERCHIEF
A covering for the head. [Obs.] Chaucer.
COVERCLE
A small cover; a lid. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
COVERED
Under cover; screened; sheltered; not exposed; hidden. Coveredway (Fort.), a corridor or banquette along the top of thecounterscarp and covered by an embankment whose slope forms theglacis. It gives the garrisonn an open line of communication aroundthe works, and a standing place beyond the ditch. See Illust. ofRavelin.
COVERER
One who, or that which, covers.
COVERING
Anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, awrapper, clothing, etc.Noah removed the covering of the ark. Gen. viii. 13.They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have nocovering in the cold. Job. xxiv. 7.A covering over the well's mouth. 2 Sam. xvii. 19.
COVERLET
The uppermost cover of a bed or of any piece of furniture.Lay her in lilies and in violets . . . And odored sheets and arrascoverlets. Spenser.
COVERLID
A coverlet.All the coverlid was clocth of gold. Tennyson.
COVERSED SINE
The versed sine of the complement of an arc or angle. SeeIllust. of Functions.
COVERSIDE
A region of country having covers; a hunting country.
COVERT
Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, amarried woman who is considered as being under the protection andcontrol of her husband. Covert way, (Fort.) See Covered way, underCovered.
COVERT BARON
Under the protection of a husband; married. Burrill.
COVERTLY
Secretly; in private; insidiously.
COVERTNESS
Secrecy; privacy. [R.]
COVERTURE
The condition of a woman during marriage, because she isconsidered under the cover, influence, power, and protection of herhusband, and therefore called a feme covert, or femme couverte.
COVET
To have or indulge inordinate desire.Which [money] while some coveted after, they have erred from thefaith. 1 Tim. vi. 10.
COVETABLE
That may be coveted; desirable.
COVETER
One who covets.
COVETISE
Avarice. [Obs.] Spenser.
COVETIVENESS
Acquisitiveness.
COVETOUSLY
In a covetous manner.
COVEY
To brood; to incubate. [Obs.][Tortoises] covey a whole year before they hatch. Holland.
COVIN
A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudicea third.
COVINOUS
Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest.
COW
A chimney cap; a cowl
COW PARSLEY
An umbelliferous plant of the genus Chรฆrophyllum (C. temulumand C. sylvestre).
COW PARSNIP
A coarse umbelliferous weed of the genus Heracleum (H.sphondylium in England, and H. lanatum in America).
COW TREE
A tree (Galactodendron utile or Brosimum Galactodendron) ofSouth America, which yields, on incision, a nourishing fluid,resembling milk.
COW-PILOT
A handsomely banded, coral-reef fish, of Florida and the WestIndies (Pomacentrus saxatilis); -- called also mojarra.
COWAGE
See Cowhage.
COWALKER
A phantasmic or "astral" body deemed to be separable from thephysical body and capable of acting independently; a doppelgรคnger.
COWAN
One who works as a mason without having served a regularapprenticeship. [Scot.]
COWARD
Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs;-- said of a lion.
COWARDICE
Want of courage to face danger; extreme timidity;pusillanimity; base fear of danger or hurt; lack of spirit.The cowardice of doing wrong. Milton.Moderation was despised as cowardice. Macualay.
COWARDIE
Cowardice. [Obs.]
COWARDISH
Cowardly. [Obs.] " A base and a cowardish mind." Robynson(More's Utopia).
COWARDIZE
To render cowardly. [Obs.]God . . . cowardizeth . . . insolent spirits. Bp. Hall.
COWARDLINESS
Cowardice.
COWARDLY
In the manner of a coward. Spenser.
COWARDSHIP
Cowardice. [Obs.] Shak.
COWBANE
A poisonous umbelliferous plant; in England, the Cicuta virosa;in the United States, the Cicuta maculata and the Archemora rigida.See Water hemlock.
COWBERRY
A species of Vaccinium (V. Vitis-id), which bears acid redberries which are sometimes used in cookery; -- locally calledmountain cranberry.
COWBIRD
The cow blackbird (Molothrus ater), an American starling. Likethe European cuckoo, it builds no nest, but lays its eggs in thenests of other birds; -- so called because frequently associated withcattle.
COWBLAKES
Dried cow dung used as fuel.[Prov. Eng.] Simmonds.
COWCATCHER
A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in frontof a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions ona railway, as cattle; the pilot. [U.S.]
COWDIE
See Kauri.
COWER
To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, toquail; to sink through fear.Our dame sits cowering o'er a kitchen fire. Dryden.Like falcons, cowering on the nest. Goldsmith.
COWHAGE
A leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crookedpods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causingintolerable itching. The spiculรฆ are sometimes used in medicine as amechanical vermifuge. [Written also couhage, cowage, and cowitch.]
COWHEARTED
Cowardly.The Lady Powis . . . patted him with her fan, and called him acowhearted fellow. R. North.
COWHERD
One whose occupation is to tend cows.
COWHIDE
To flog with a cowhide.
COWISH
Timorous; fearful; cowardly. [R.] Shak.
COWITCH
See Cowhage.
COWL
A vessel carried on a pole between two persons, for conveyanceof water. Johnson.
COWLED
Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk. "That cowledchurchman." Emerson.
COWLEECH
One who heals disease of cows; a cow doctor.
COWLEECHING
Healing the distemper of cows.
COWLICK
A tuft of hair turned up or awry (usually over the forehead),as if licked by a cow.
COWLIKE
Resembling a cow.With cowlike udders and with oxlike eyes. Pope.
COWLSTAFF
A staff or pole on which a vessel is supported between twopersons. Suckling.
COWORKER
One who works with another; a co
COWPEA
The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genusDolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated inthe southern part of the United States.
COWPOCK
See Cowpox. Dunglison.
COWPOX
A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, whencommunicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects fromthe smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, andkinepock. Dunglison.
COWQUAKE
A genus of plants (Briza); quaking grass.
COWRIE
Same as Kauri.
COWSLIPPED
Adorned with cowslips. "Cowslipped lawns." Keats.
COWWEED
Same as Cow parsley.
COWWHEAT
A weed of the genus Melampyrum, with black seeds, found onEuropean wheatfields.
COX
A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull. [Obs.]Go; you're a brainless cox, a toy, a fop. Beau. & Fl.
COXA
The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.
COXCOMB
A name given to several plants of different genera, butparticularly to Celosia cristata, or garden cockscomb. Same asCockscomb.
COXCOMBICAL
Befitting or indicating a coxcomb; like a coxcomb; foppish;conceited.-- Cox*comb"ic*al*ly, adv.Studded all over in coxcombical fashion with little brass nails. W.Irving.
COXCOMBLY
like a coxcomb. [Obs.] "You coxcombly ass, you!" Beau & Fl.
COXCOMBRY
The manners of a coxcomb; foppishness.
COXCOMICAL
Coxcombical. [R.]
COXCOMICALLY
Conceitedly. [R.]
COXSWAIN
See Cockswain.
COYISH
Somewhat coy or reserved. Warner.
COYLY
In a coy manner; with reserve.
COYNESS
The quality of being coy; feigned oWhen the kind nymph would coyness feign, And hides but to be foundagain. Dryden.
COYOTE
A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, foundin the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf.Its voice is a snapping bark, followed by a prolonged, shrill howl.
COYOTE STATE
South Dakota; -- a nickname.
COYOTILLO
A low rhamnaceous shrub (Karwinskia humboldtiana) of thesouthwestern United States and Mexico. Its berries are said to bepoisonous to the coyote.
COYPU
A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to thebeaver. It produces a valuable fur called nutria. [Written alsocoypou.]
COYSTREL
Same as Coistril.
COZ
A contraction of cousin. Shak.
COZEN
To cheat; to defrand; to beguile; to deceive, usually by smallarts, or in a pitiful way.He had cozened the world by fine phrases. Macualay.Children may be cozened into a knowledge of the letters. Locke.Goring loved no man so well but that he would cozen him, and exposehim to public mirth for having been cozened. Clarendon.
COZENAGE
The art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud. Shak.
COZENER
One who cheats or defrauds.
COZIER
See Cosier.
COZILY
Snugly; comfortably.
COZINESS
The state or quality of being cozy.
COZY
Chatty; talkative; sociable; familiar. [Eng.]
CRAB
One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, andusually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell orcarapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body.
CRAB TREE
See under Crab.
CRAB-YAWS
A disease in the West Indies. It is a kind of ulcer on thesoles of the feet, with very hard edges. See Yaws. Dunglison.
CRABBER
One who catches crabs.
CRABBING
The foghting of hawks with each other.
CRABBISH
Somewhat sour or cross.The wips of the most crabbish Satyristes. Decker.
CRABBY
Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing. "Persius is crabby, becauseancient." Marston.
CRABER
The water rat. Walton.
CRABFACED
Having a sour, disagreeable countenance. Beau & Fl.
CRABSIDLE
To move sidewise, as a crab. [Jocular]. Southey.
CRABSTICK
A stick, cane, or cudgel, made of the wood of the carb tree.
CRACHE
To scratch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CRACK
Of superior excellence; having qualities to be boasted of.[Colloq.]One of our crack speakers in the Commons. Dickens.
CRACK-BRAINED
Having an impaired intellect; whimsical; crazy. Pope.
CRACKAJACK
Of marked ability or excellence. [Slang]
CRACKER
The pintail duck.
CRACKER STATE
Georgia; -- a nickname. See Cracker, n. 5.
CRACKLE
To make slight cracks; to make small, sharp, sudden noises,rapidly or frequently repeated; to crepitate; as, burning thornscrackle.The unknown ice that crackles underneath them. Dryden.
CRACKLED
Covered with minute cracks in the glaze; -- said of some kindsof porcelain and fine earthenware.
CRACKLEWARE
See Crackle, n., 3.
CRACKLING
Food for dogs, made from the refuse of tallow melting.
CRACKNEL
A hard brittle cake or biscuit. Spenser.
CRACKSMAN
A burglar. [Slang]
CRACOVIAN
Of or pertaining to Cracow in Poland.
CRACOVIENNE
A lively Polish dance, in 2-4 time.
CRACOWES
Long-toed boots or shoes formerly worn in many parts of Europe;-- so called from Cracow, in Poland, where they were first worn inthe fourteenth century. Fairholt.
CRADLE
An implement consisting of a broad scythe for cutting grain,with a set of long fingers parallel to the scythe, designed toreceive the grain, and to lay it eventlyin a swath.
CRADLELAND
Land or region where one was cradled; hence, land of origin.
CRADLING
Cutting a cask into two pieces lengthwise, to enable it to passa narrow place, the two parts being afterward united and rehooped.
CRAFT
A vessel; vessels of any kind; -- generally used in acollective sense.The evolutions of the numerous tiny craft moving over the lake. Prof.Wilson.Small crafts, small vessels, as sloops, schooners, ets.
CRAFTER
a creator of great skill in the manual arts.Syn. -- craftsman.[WordNet 1.5]
CRAFTILY
With craft; artfully; cunningly.
CRAFTINESS
Dexterity in devising and effecting a purpose; cunning;artifice; stratagem.He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. Job. v. 13.
CRAFTLESS
Without craft or cunning.Helpless, craftless, and innocent people. Jer. Taylor.
CRAFTSMAN
One skilled in some trade or manual occupation; an artificer; amechanic.
CRAFTSMANSHIP
The work of a craftsman.
CRAFTSMASTER
One skilled in his craft or trade; one of superior cunning.In cunning persuasion his craftsmaster. Holland.
CRAG
A partially compacted bed of gravel mixed with shells, of theTertiary age.
CRAGGED
Full of crags, or steep, brokenInto its cragged rents descend. J. Baillie.
CRAGGEDNESS
The quality or state of being cragged; cragginess.
CRAGGINESS
The state of being craggy.
CRAGGY
Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, thecraggy side of a mountain. "The craggy ledge." Tennyson.
CRAGSMAN
One accustomed to climb rocks or crags; esp., one who makes abusiness of climbing the cliffs overhanging the sea to get the eggsof sea birds or the birds themselves.
CRAIE
See Crare. [Obs.]
CRAIG FLOUNDER
The pole flounder.
CRAIL
A creel or osier basket.
CRAKE
A boast. See Crack, n. [Obs.] Spenser.
CRAKEBERRY
See Crowberry.
CRAKER
One who boasts; a braggart. [Obs.] Old Play.
CRAM
A warp having more than two threads passing through each dentor split of the reed.
CRAMMER
One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for anexxamination, or a pupil who is thus prepared. Dickens.
CRAMP
A device, usually of iron bent at the ends, used to holdtogether blocks of stone, timbers, etc.; a cramp iron.
CRAMP IRON
See Cramp, n., 2.
CRAMPET
A cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard. [Writtenalso crampit and crampette.]
CRAMPFISH
The torpedo, or electric ray, the touch of which gives anelectric shock. See Electric fish, and Torpedo.
CRAMPIT
See Crampet.
CRAMPON
An a
CRAMPONEE
Having a cramp or square piece at the end; -- said of a crossso furnished.
CRAMPY
A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel.[Scot.] H. Miller.
CRANBERRY
A red, acid berry, much used for making sauce, etc.; also, theplant producing it (several species of Vaccinum or Oxycoccus.) Thehigh cranberry or cranberry tree is a species of Viburnum (V.Opulus), and the other is sometimes called low cranberry or marshcranberry to distinguish it.
CRANCH
See Craunch.
CRANDALL
A kind of hammer having a head formed of a group of pointedsteel bars, used for dressing ashlar, etc. -- v. t.
CRANE
A wading bird of the genus Grus, and allied genera, of variousspecies, having a long, straight bill, and long legs and neck.
CRANG
See Krang.
CRANIA
A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fanciedresemblance to the cranium or skull.
CRANIAL
Of or pertaining to the cranium.
CRANIOCLASM
The crushing of a child's head, as with the cranioclast orcraniotomy forceps in cases of very difficult delivery. Dunglison.
CRANIOCLAST
An instrument for crushing the head of a fetus, to facilitatedelivery in difficult eases.
CRANIOFACIAL
Of or pertaining to the cranium and face; as, the craniofacialangle.
CRANIOGNOMY
The science of the form and characteristics of the skull. [R.]
CRANIOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to craniology.
CRANIOLOGIST
One proficient in craniology; a phrenologist.
CRANIOLOGY
The department of science (as of ethnology or archรฆology) whichdeals with the shape, size, proportions, indications, etc., ofskulls; the study of skulls.
CRANIOMETER
An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.
CRANIOMETRY
The art or act of measuring skulls.
CRANIOSCOPIST
One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy.It was found of equal dimension in a literary man whose skull puzziedthe cranioscopists. Coleridge.
CRANIOSCOPY
Scientific examination of the cranium.
CRANIOTA
A comprehensive division of the Vertebrata, including all thosethat have a skull.
CRANIOTOMY
The operation of opening the fetal head, in order to effectdelivery.
CRANIUM
The skull of an animal; especially, that part of the skull,either cartilaginous or bony, which immediately incloses the brain;the brain case or brainpan. See Skull.
CRANK
A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at rightangles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to orreceived from it; also used to change circular into reciprocatingmotion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank.
CRANKBIRD
A small European woodpecker (Picus minor).
CRANKED
Formed with, or having, a bend or crank; as, a cranked axle.
CRANKINESS
Crankness. Lowell.
CRANKLE
To break into bends, turns, or angles; to crinkle.Old Veg's stream . . . drew her humid train aslope, Crankling herbanks. J. Philips.
CRANKNESS
Liability to be overset; -- said of a ship or other vessel.
CRANNIED
Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall.Tennyson.
CRANNY
A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc.
CRANTARA
The fiery cross, used as a rallying signal in the Highlands ofScotland.
CRANTS
A garland carried before the bier of a maiden. [Obs.]Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants, Her maaiden strewments.Shak.
CRAP
In the game of craps, a first throw of the dice in which thetotal is two, three, or twelve, in which case the caster loses.
CRAP SHOOTING
Same as Craps.
CRAPAUD
A toad. [Obs.]
CRAPAUDINE
Turning on pivots at the top and bottom; -- said of a door.
CRAPE
A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted onthe mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also forthe dress of some clergymen.A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn. Pope.Crape myrtle (Bot.), a very ornamental shrub (Lagerstrรถmia Indica)from the East Indies, often planted in the Southern United States.Its foliage is like that of the myrtle, and the flower has wavycrisped petals.-- Oriental crape. See Canton crape.
CRAPEFISH
Salted codfish hardened by pressure. Kane.
CRAPNEL
A hook or drag; a grapnel.
CRAPPIE
A kind of fresh-water bass of the genus Pomoxys, found in therivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi valley. Thereare several species. [Written also croppie.]
CRAPPLE
A claw. [Obs.]
CRAPS
A gambling game with dice. [Local, U.S.]
CRAPULENCE
The sickness occasioned by intemperance; surfeit. Bailey.
CRAPY
Resembling crape.
CRARE
A slow unwieldy trading vessel. [Obs.] [Written also crayer,cray, and craie.] Shak.
CRASE
To break in pieces; to crack. [Obs.] "The pot was crased."Chaucer.
CRASH
To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise andviolence. [R.]He shakt his head, and crasht his teeth for ire. Fairfax.
CRASHING
The noise of many things falling and breaking at once.There shall be . . . a great crashing from the hills. Zeph. i. 10.
CRASIS
A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution;temperament.
CRASPEDOTA
The hydroid or naked-eyed medusรฆ. See Hydroidea.
CRASPEDOTE
Of or pertaining to the Craspedota.
CRASS
Cross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined. "Crassand fumid exhalations." Sir. T. Browne. "Crass ignorance" Cudworth.
CRASSIMENT
See Crassament.
CRASSITUDE
Crossness; coarseness; thickness; density. Bacon.
CRASSNESS
Grossness. [Obs.] Glanvill.
CRASTINATION
Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow. [Obs.]
CRATAEGUS
A genus of small, hardy trees, including the hawthorn, muchused for ornamental purposes.
CRATCH
A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack. [Obs.]Begin from first where He encradled was, In simple cratch, wrapt in awad of hay. Spenser.Cratch cradle, a representation of the figure of the cratch, madeupon the fingers with a string; cat's cradle; -- called also scratchcradle.
CRATE
To pack in a crate or case for transportation; as, to crate asewing machine; to crate peaches.
CRATER
The pit left by the explosion of a mine.
CRATERIFORM
Having the form of a shallow bowl; -- said of a corolla.
CRATEROUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, a crater. [R.] R. Browning.
CRAUNCH
To crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; tocrunch. Swift.
CRAVAT
A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, wornby men about the neck.While his wig was combed and his cravat tied. Macualay.
CRAVATTED
Wearing a cravat.The young men faultlessly appointed, handsomely cravatted. Thackeray.
CRAVE
To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, acraving appetite.Once one may crave for love. Suckling.
CRAVEN
Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless. "His craven heart." Shak.The poor craven bridegroom said never a word. Sir. W. Scott.In craven fear of the sarcasm of Dorset. Macualay.
CRAVER
One who craves or begs.
CRAVING
Vehement or urgent desire; longing for; beseeching.A succession of cravings and satiety. L'Estrange.-- Crav"ing*ly, adv.-- Crav"ing*ness, n.
CRAW
Any crustacean of the family Astacidรฆ, resembling the lobster,but smaller, and found in fresh waters. Crawfishes are esteemed verydelicate food both in Europe and America. The North American speciesare numerous and mostly belong to the genus Cambarus. The blindcrawfish of the Mamoth Cave is Cambarus pellucidus. The commonEuropean species is Astacus fluviatilis.
CRAWFORD
A Crawford peach; a well-known freestone peach, wich yellowflesh, first raised by Mr. William Crawford, of New Jersey.
CRAWL
The act or motion of crawling;
CRAWL STROKE
A racing stroke, in which the swimmer, lying flat on the waterwith face submerged, takes alternate overhand arm strokes whilemoving his legs up and down alternately from the knee.
CRAWLER
One who, or that which, crawls; a creeper; a reptile.
CRAWLY
Creepy. [Colloq.]
CRAYFISH
See Crawfish.
CRAYON
A pencil of carbon used in producing electric light. Crayonboard, cardboard with a surface prepared for crayon drawing.-- Crayon drawing, the act or art of drawing with crayons; a drawingmade with crayons.
CRAZEDNESS
A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of theintellect.
CRAZILY
In a crazy manner.
CREABLE
Capable of being created. [Obs.] I. Watts.
CREAGHT
A drove or herd. [Obs.] Haliwell.
CREAK
To make a prolonged sharp grating or ssqueaking sound, as bythe friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak.The creaking locusts with my voice conspire. Dryden.Doors upon their hinges creaked. Tennyson.
CREAKING
A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such asound.Start not at the creaking of the door. Longfellow.
CREAM
To form or become covered with cream; to become thick likecream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff orformal; to mantle.There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like astanding pool. Shak.
CREAM LAID
See under Laid.
CREAM-COLORED
Of the color of cream; light yellow. "Cream-colored horses."Hazlitt.
CREAM-FACED
White or pale, as the effect of fear, or as the naturalcomplexion.Thou cream-faced loon. Shak.
CREAM-FRUIT
A plant of Sierra Leone which yields a wholesome, creamy juice.
CREAM-SLICE
A wooden knife with a long thin blade, used in handling creamor ice cream.
CREAM-WHITE
As white as cream.
CREAMCAKE
A kind of cake filled with custard made of cream, eggs, etc.
CREAMINESS
The quality of being creamy.
CREAMY
Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature,appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous. "Creamy bowis." Collins."Lines of creamy spray." Tennyson. "Your creamy words but cozen."Beau & Fl.
CREANCE
A fine, small line, fastened to a hawk's leash, when it isfirst lured.
CREANT
Creative; formative. [R.] Mrs. Browning.
CREASE
See Creese. Tennison.
CREASER
A tool for making the band impression distinct on the back.Knight.
CREASING
A layer of tiles forming a corona for a wall.
CREASOTE
See Creosote.
CREASY
Full of creases. Tennyson.
CREAT
An usher to a riding master.
CREATABLE
That may be created.
CREATE
Created; composed; begotte. [Obs.]Hearts create of duty and zeal. Shak.
CREATIC
Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creaticnausea. [Written also kreatic.]
CREATIN
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly inmuscle tissue. [Written also kreatine.]
CREATININ
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related tocreatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter bythe action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and inurine. [Written also kretinine.]
CREATIONAL
Of or pertaining to creation.
CREATIONISM
The doctrine that a soul is specially created for each humanbeing as soon as it is formed in the womb; -- opposed totraducianism.
CREATIVE
Having the power to create; exerting the act of creation."Creative talent." W. Irving.The creative force exists in the germ. Whewell.
CREATIVENESS
The qualiyu of being creative.
CREATOR
One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, theSupreme Being.To sin's rebuke and my Creater's praise. Shak.The poets and artists of Greece, who are at the same time itsprophets, the creators of its divinities, and the revealers of itstheological beliefs. Caird.
CREATORSHIP
State or condition of a creator.
CREATRESS
She who creates. Spenser.
CREATRIX
A creatress. [R.]
CREATURAL
Belonging to a creature; having the qualities of a creature.[R.]
CREATURELESS
Without created beings; alone.God was alone And creatureless at first. Donne.
CREATURELY
Creatural; characteristic of a creature. [R.] "Creaturelyfaculties." Cheyne.
CREATURESHIP
The condition of being a creature.
CREATURIZE
To make like a creature; to degrade [Obs.]Degrade and creaturize that mundane soul. Cudworth.
CREAZE
The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washingpit or buddle.
CREBRICOSTATE
Marked with closely set ribs or ridges.
CREBRISULCATE
Marked with closely set transverse furrows.
CREBRITUDE
Frequency. [Obs.] Bailey.
CREBROUS
Frequent; numerous. [Obs.] Goodwin.
CRECHE
A public nursery, where the young children of poor women arecared for during the day, while their mothers are at work.
CREDENCE
The small table by the side of the altar or communion table, onwhich the bread and wine are placed before being consecrated.
CREDENDUM
A thing to be believed; an article of faith; -- distinguishedfrom agendum, a practical duty.The great articles and credenda of Christianity. South.
CREDENTIAL
Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting.Their credential letters on both sides. Camden.
CREDIBILITY
The quality of being credible; credibleness; as, thecredibility of facts; the credibility of witnesses.
CREDIBLE
Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief;entiled to confidence; trustworthy.Things are made credible either by the known condition and quality ofthe utterer or by the manifest likelihood of truth in themselves.Hooker.A very diligent and observing person, and likewise very sober andcredible. Dampier.
CREDIBLENESS
The quality or state of being credible; worthness of belief;credibility. [R.] Boyle.
CREDIBLY
In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informedof the event.
CREDIT
Trust given or received; expectation of future playment forproperty transferred, or of fulfillment or promises given; mercantilereputation entitling one to be trusted; -- applied to individuals,corporations, communities, or nations; as, to buy goods on credit.Credit is nothing but the expectation of money, within some limitedtime. Locke.
CREDIT FONCIER
A company licensed for the purpose of carrying outimprovements, by means of loans and advances upon real securities. ]
CREDIT MOBILIER
A joint stock company, formed for general banking business, orfor the construction of public works, by means of loans on personalestate, after the manner of the crรฉdit foncier on real estate. Inpractice, however, this distinction has not been strictly observed.
CREDITABLENESS
The quality of being creditable.
CREDITABLY
In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.
CREDITOR
A female creditor.
CREDO
The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church.He repeated Aves and Credos. Macualay.
CREDULITY
Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slightevidence.That implict credulity is the mark of a feeble mind will not bedisputed. Sir W. Hamilton.
CREDULOUSLY
With credulity.
CREDULOUSNESS
Readiness to believe on slight evidence; credulity.Beyond all credulity is the credulousness of atheists. S. Clarke.
CREED
To believe; to credit. [Obs.]That part which is so creeded by the people. Milton.
CREEDLESS
Without a creed. Carlyle.
CREEKFISH
The chub sucker.
CREEKS
A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including theMuskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. Theyformerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.
CREEKY
Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks;like a creek; winding. "The creeky shore." Spenser.
CREEL
A bar or set of bars with skewers for holding paying-offbobbins, as in the roving machine, throstle, and mule.
CREEP
A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by thepressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradualmovement of mining ground.
CREEPER
A plant that clings by rootlets, or by tendrils, to the ground,or to trees, etc.; as, the Virginia creeper (Ampelopsisquinquefolia).
CREEPIE
A low stool. [Scot.]
CREEPINESS
An uneasy sensation as of insects creeping on the skin.She felt a curious, uneasy creepiness. Mrs. Alexander.
CREEPING CHARLIE
The stonecrop (Sedum acre).
CREEPINGLY
by creeping slowly; in the manner of a reptile; insidiously;cunningly.How slily and creepingly did he address himself to our first parents.South.
CREEPY
Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused byinsects creeping on the skin. [Colloq.]One's whole blood grew curdling and creepy. R. Browning.
CREES
An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part ofBritish America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson'sBay.
CREESE
A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having aserpentine blade. [Written also crease and kris.]From a Malayan creese to a sailor's jackknife. Julian Hawthorne.
CREMAILLERE
An indented or zigzaged line of intrenchment.
CREMASTER
A thin muscle which serves to draw up the testicle.
CREMASTERIC
Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery.
CREMATE
To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, eitherdirectly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate; as, tocremate a corpse, instead of burying it.
CREMATION
A burning; esp., the act or practice of cremating the dead.Without cremation . . . of their bodies. Sir T. Browne.
CREMATIONIST
One who advocates the practice of cremation.
CREMATOR
One who, or that which, cremmates or consumes to ashes.
CREMATORY
Pertaining to, or employed in, cremation.
CREME
Cream; -- a term used esp. in cookery, names of liqueurs, etc.
CREMOCARP
The peculiar fruit of fennel, carrott, parsnip, and the like,consisting of a pair of carpels pendent from a supporting axis.
CREMONA
A superior kind of violin, formerly made at Cremona, in Italy.
CREMOR
Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum.
CREMOSIN
See Crimson. [Obs.]
CREMS
See Krems.
CRENATION
A rounded tooth on the edge of a leaf.
CRENATURE
A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that iscrenate; -- called also crenelle.
CRENEL
See Crenelle.
CRENELATION
The act of crenelating, or the state of being crenelated; anindentation or an embrasure. [Written also crenellation.]
CRENELLED
Same as Crenate.
CREOLE
One born of European parents in the American colonies of Franceor Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. aperson of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant ofLouisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf ofof Mexico.
CREOLE STATE
Louisiana; -- a nickname. See Creole, n. & a.
CREOSOL
A colorless liquid resembling phenol or carbolic acid,homologous with pyrocatechin, and obtained from beechwood tar and gumguaiacum. [Written also creasol.]
CREOSOTE
Wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smokytaste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown byimpurity or exposure. It is a complex mixture of various phenols andtheir ethers, and is obtained by the distillation of wood tar,especially that of beechwood.
CREOSOTE BUSH
A shrub (Covillea mexicana) found in desert regions fromColorado to California and southward through Mexico. It has yellowflowers and very resinous foliage with a strong odor of creosote.
CREPE
Same as Crape.
CREPITANT
Having a crackling sound; crackling; rattling. Crepitant rale(Med.), a peculiar crackling sound audible with inspiration inpneumonia and other lung disease.
CREPITATE
To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosionsor sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap.
CREPON
A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool andsilk.
CREPT
imp. & p. p. of Creep.
CREPUSCULINE
Crepuscular. [Obs.] Sprat.
CRESCENCE
Increase; enlargement. [Obs.]And toward the moon's attractive crescence bend. H. Brooke.
CRESCENDO
With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with graduallyincreasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for theperformance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the wordon the score.
CRESCENT
The emblem of the increasing moon with horns directed upward,when used in a coat of arms; -- often used as a mark of cadency todistinguish a second son and his descendants.
CRESCENTIC
Crescent-shaped. "Crescentic lobes." R. Owen.
CRESCENTWISE
In the form of a crescent; like a crescent. Tennyson.
CRESCIVE
Increasing; growing. [R.]Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty. Shak.
CRESOL
Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologouswith and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and woodtar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids.
CRESORCIN
Same as Isorcin.
CRESS
A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaveshave a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad andantiscorbutic.
CRESSELLE
A wooden rattle sometimes used as a substitute for a bell, inthe Roman Catholic church, during the latter part of Holy Week, orthe last week of Lent.
CRESSET
A small furnace or iron cage to hold fire for charring theinside of a cask, and making the staves flexible. Knight.
CRESSY
Abounding in cresses.The cressy islets white in flower. Tennyson.
CREST
A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, orseparately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is arelic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4.
CRESTED
Having a crest of feathers or hair upon the head. "The crestedbird." Dryden.
CRESTING
An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof.
CRESTLESS
Without a crest or escutcheon; of low birth. "Crestlessyeomen." Shak.
CRESYLIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, cresol, creosote, etc. Cresylicacid. (Chem.) See Cresol.
CRETACEOUS
Having the qualities of chalk;abounding with chalk; chalky; as,cretaceous rocks and formations. See Chalk. Cretaceous acid, an oldname for carbonic acid.-- Cretaceous formation (Geol.), the series of strata of variouskinds, including beds of chalk, green sand, etc., formed in theCretaceous period; -- called also the chalk formation. See theDiagram under Geology.-- Cretaceous period (Geol.), the time in the latter part of theMesozoic age during which the Cretaceous formation was deposited.
CRETACEOUSLY
In a chalky manner; as chalk.
CRETAN
Pertaining to Crete, or Candia.-- n.
CRETE
A Cretan
CRETIAN
See Cretan.
CRETIC
A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two longones (-Bentley.
CRETICISM
Falsehood; lying; cretism.
CRETIN
One afflicted with cretinism.
CRETINISM
A condition of endemic or inherited idiocy, accompanied byphysical degeneracy and deformity (usually with goiter), frequent incertain mountain valleys, esp. of the Alps.
CRETINOUS
Having the characteristics of a cretin. "Cretinousstupefaction." Ruskin.
CRETISM
A Cretan practice; iying; a falsehood.
CRETOSE
Chalky; cretaceous. [Obs.] Ash.
CREUTZER
(kroitn. See Kreutzer.
CREUX
Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus,engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking orhollowing out the design.
CREVET
A crucible or melting pot; a cruset. Crabb.
CREVICE
A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or theseparation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent.The mouse, Behind the moldering wainscot, shrieked, Or from thecrevice peered about. Tennyson.
CREVICED
Having a crevice or crevices; as, a creviced structure forstoring ears of corn.Trickling through the creviced rock. J. Cunningham.
CREVIS
The crawfish. [Prov. Eng.]
CREW
The Manx shearwater.
CREWEL
Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery.
CREWELWORK
Embroidery in crewels, commonly done upon some plain material,such as linen.
CREWET
See Cruet.
CRIB
A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or forsupporting a roof, or for lining a shaft.
CRIB-BITING
Same as Cribbing, 4.
CRIBBAGE
A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which thereis a crib. (See Crib, 11.) It is characterized by a great variety ofchances.A man's fancy would be summed up in cribbage. John Hall.Cribbage board, a board with holes and pegs, used by cribbage playersto score their game.
CRIBBING
A framework of timbers and plank backing for a shaft lining, toprevent caving, percolation of water, etc.
CRIBBLE
To cause to pass through a sieve or riddle; to sift.
CRIBELLUM
A peculiar perforated organ of certain spiders (Ciniflonidรฆ),used for spinning a special kind of silk.
CRIBRATE
Cribriform.
CRIBRATION
The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs fromthe coarser by sifting.
CRIBRIFORM
Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with hokes;as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress.Cribriform cells (Bot.), those which have here and there oblique ortransverse sieve plates, or places perforated with many holes.
CRIBROSE
Perforated like a sieve; cribriform.
CRIC
The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp.Knight.
CRICK
The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it. [Obs.]Johnson.
CRICKET
An orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllus, and allied genera.The males make chirping, musical notes by rubbing together the basalparts of the veins of the front wings.
CRICKETER
One who plays at cricket.
CRICOID
Resembling a ring; -- said esp. of the cartilage at the larynx,and the adjoining parts.
CRICOTHYROID
Of or pertaining both to the cricoid and the thyroidcartilages.
CRIED
imp. & p. p. of Cry.
CRIER
One who cries; one who makes proclamation. Specifically, anofficer who proclams the orders or directions of a court, or whogives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier.He openeth his mouth like a crier. Ecclus. xx. 15.
CRIMEFUL
Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury. [Obs.] Shak.
CRIMELESS
Free from crime; innocent. Shak.
CRIMINAL
One who has commited a crime; especially, one who is foundguilty by verdict, confession, or proof; a malefactor; a felon.
CRIMINALIST
One versed in criminal law. [R.]
CRIMINALITY
The quality or state of being criminal; that which constitutesa crime; guiltiness; guilt.This is by no means the only criterion of criminality. Blackstone.
CRIMINALLY
In violation of law; wickedly.
CRIMINALNESS
Criminality. [R.]
CRIMINATION
The act of accusing; accusation; charge; complaint.The criminations and recriminations of the adverse parties. Macaulay.
CRIMINATIVE
Charging with crime; accusing; criminatory. R. North.
CRIMINATORY
Relating to, or involving, crimination; accusing; as, acriminatory conscience.
CRIMINOLOGY
A treatise on crime or the criminal population.-- Crim`i*nol"o*gist (-j, n.
CRIMINOUS
Criminal; involving great crime or grave charges; very wicked;heinous. [Obs.] Holland.-- Crim"i*nous*ly, adv..-- Crim"i*nous*ness,n. [Obs.]
CRIMOSIN
See Crimson.
CRIMP
To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh ofa fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate,etc. Crimping house, a low lodging house, into which men are decoyedand plied with drink, to induce them to ship or enlist as sailors orsoldiers.-- Crimping iron. (a) An iron instrument for crimping and curlingthe hair. (b) A crimping machine.-- Crimping machine, a machine with fluted rollers or with dies, forcrimping ruffles leather, iron, etc.-- Crimping pin, an instrument for crimping or puckering the borderof a lady's cap.
CRIMPAGE
The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp forshipping or enlisting men.
CRIMPER
One who, or that which, crimps; as: (a) A curved board or frameover which the upper of a boot or shoe is stretched to the requiredshape. (b) A device for giving hair a wavy apperance. (c) A machinefor crimping or ruffling textile fabrics.
CRIMPLE
To cause to shrink or draw together; to contract; to curl. [R.]Wiseman.
CRIMPY
Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool ofthe Saxony sheep.
CRIMSON
A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.Theugh jour be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; thoughthey be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Is. i. 18.A maid jet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty. Shak.
CRINAL
Of or pertaining to the hair. [R.] Blount.
CRINATED
Having hair; hairy.
CRINATORY
Crinitory. Craig.
CRINCUM
A twist or bend; a turn; a whimsey. [Colloq.] Hudibras.
CRINCUM-CRANCUM
A twist; a whimsey or whim. [Colloq.]
CRINED
Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of thebody; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.
CRINGE
To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend orcrouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in adegrading manner; to fawn.When they were come up to the place where the lions were, the boysthat went before were glad to cringe behind, for they were afraid ofthe lions. Bunyan.Sly hypocrite, . . . who more than thou Once fawned and cringed, andservilely adored Heaven's awful monarch Milton.Flatterers . . . are always bowing and cringing. Arbuthnot.
CRINGELING
One who cringes meanly; a fawner.
CRINGER
One who cringes.
CRINGINGLY
In a cringing manner.
CRINGLE
An iron or pope thimble or grommet worked into or attached tothe edges and corners of a sail; -- usually in the plural. Thecringles are used for making fast the bowline bridles, earings, etc.
CRINICULTURAL
Relating to the growth of hair. [R.]
CRINIGEROUS
Bearing hair; hairy. [R.]
CRINITAL
Same as Crinite,
CRINITE
Bearded or tufted with hairs. Gray.
CRINITORY
Of or relating to hair; as, a crinitory covering. T. Hook.
CRINKLE
To form with short turns, bends, or wrinkles; to mold intoinequalites or sinuosities; to cause to wrinkle or curl.The houscrinkled to and fro. Chaucer.Her face all bowsy, Comely crinkled, Wondrously wrinkled. Skelton.The flames through all the casements pushing forth, Like red-notdevils crinkled into snakes. Mrs. Browning.
CRINKLED
Having short bends, turns, or wrinkles; wrinkled; wavy; zigzag."The crinkled lightning." Lowell.
CRINKLY
Having crinkles; wavy; wrinkly.
CRINOID
Crinoidal.-- n.
CRINOIDAL
Of pertaining to crinoids; consisting of, or containing,crinoids.
CRINOIDEA
A large class of Echinodermata, including numerous extinctfamilies and genera, but comparatively few living ones. Most of thefossil species, like some that are recent, were attached by a jointedstem. See Blastoidea, Cystoidea, Comatula.
CRINOIDEAN
One of the Crinoidea.
CRINOSE
Hairy. [R.]
CRINOSITY
Hairiness. [R.]
CRINUM
A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace,cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty.
CRIOSPHINX
A sphinx with the head of a ram.
CRIPPLE
One who creeps, halts, or limps; one who has lost, or neverhad, the use of a limb or limbs; a lame person; hence, one who ispartially disabled.I am a cripple in my limbs; but what decays are in my mind, thereader must determine. Dryden.
CRIPPLED
Lamed; lame; disabled; impeded. "The crippled crone."Longfellow.
CRIPPLENESS
Lameness. [R.] Johnson.
CRIPPLER
A wooden tool used in graining leather. Knight.
CRIPPLING
Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of abuilding.
CRIPPLY
Lame; disabled; in a crippled condition. [R.] Mrs. Trollope.
CRISIS
That change in a disease which indicates whether the result isto be recovery or death; sometimes, also, a striking change ofsymptoms attended by an outward manifestation, as by an eruption orsweat.Till some safe crisis authorize their skill. Dryden.
CRISP
To undulate or ripple. Cf. Crisp, v. t.To watch the crisping ripples on the beach. Tennuson.
CRISPATURE
The state of being crispate.
CRISPER
One who, or that which, crisps or curls; an instrument formaking little curls in the nap of cloth, as in chinchilla.
CRISPLY
In a crisp manner.
CRISPNESS
The state or quality of being crisp.
CRISSCROSS
To mark or cover with cross lines; as, a paper was crisscrossedwith red marks.
CRISSCROSS-ROW
See Christcross-row.
CRISSUM
That part of a bird, or the feathers, surrounding the cloacalopening; the under tail coverts.
CRISTATE
Crested.
CRITERION
A standard of judging; any approved or established rule ortest, by which facts, principles opinions, and conduct are tried informing a correct judgment respecting them.Of the diseases of the mind there is no criterion. Donne.Inferences founded on such enduring criteria. Sir G. C. Lewis.
CRITH
The unit for estimating the weight of a
CRITHOMANCY
A kind of divination by means of the dough of the cakes offeredin the ancient sacrifices, and the meal strewed over the victims.
CRITIC
Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical. [Obs.]"Critic learning." Pope.
CRITICAL
Pertaining to, or indicating, a crisis, turning point, orspecially important juncture; important as regards consequences;hence, of doubtful issue; attended with risk; dangerous; as, thecritical stage of a fever; a critical situation.Our circumstances are indeed critical. Burke.The small moment, the exact point, the critical minute, on whichevery good work so much depends. South.Critical angle (Optics), that angle of incidence of a luminous ray atwhich it is wholly reflected, and no portion of it transmitted. Thesine of this angle is the reciprocal of the refractive index of themedium.-- Critical philosophy, the metaphysical system of Kant; -- socalled from his most important work, the "Critique of Pure Reason." -- Critical point (Physics), a certain temperature, different fordifferent gases, but always the same for each gas, regarded as thelimit above which no amount of pressure can produce condensation to aliquid.
CRITICASTER
A contemptible or vicious critic.The rancorous and reptile crew of poeticules, who decompose intocriticasters. Swinburne.
CRITICISABLE
Capable of being criticised.
CRITICISER
One who criticises; a critic.
CRITIQUE
To criticise or pass judgment upon. [Obs.] Pope.
CRIZZEL
A kind of roughness on the surface of glass, which clouds itstransparency. [Written also crizzeling and crizzle.]
CROAK
To utter in a low, hoarse voice; to announce by croaking; toforebode; as, to croak disaster.The raven himself is hoarse, That croaks the fatal entrance ofDuncan. Shak.Two ravens now began to croak Their nuptial song. Wordsworth.
CROATIAN
Of or pertaining to Croatia.-- n.
CROCEIN
A name given to any one of several yellow or scarlet dyestuffsof artificial production and complex structure. In general they arediazo and sulphonic acid derivatives of benzene and naphthol.
CROCEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or like, saffron; deep reddish yellow. [R.]
CROCETIN
A dyestuff, obtained from the Chinese croicin, which produces abrilliant yellow.
CROCHE
A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler.
CROCHET
A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, withworsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively.Crochet hook, Crochet needle, a small hook, or a hooked needle (oftenof bone), used in crochet work.
CROCIARY
One who carries the cross before an archbishop. [Obs.]
CROCIDOLITE
A mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color. Itis related to hornblende and is essentially a silicate of iron andsoda; -- called also blue asbestus. A silicified form, in which thefibers penetrating quartz are changed to oxide of iron, is the yellowbrown tiger-eye of the jewelers.
CROCK
The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on potsand kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter whichrubs off from cloth.
CROCKER
A potter. [Obs.] Wyclif.
CROCKERY
Earthenware; vessels formed of baked clay, especially thecoarser kinds.
CROCKET
An ornament often resembling curved and bent foliage,projecting from the sloping edge of a gable, spire, etc.
CROCKETED
Ornamented with crockets.
CROCKETING
Ornamentation with crockets. Ruskin.
CROCKY
Smutty.
CROCODILE
A large reptile of the genus Crocodilus, of several species.They grow to the length of sixteen or eighteen feet, and inhabit thelarge rivers of Africa, Asia, and America. The eggs, laid in thesand, are hatched by the sun's heat. The best known species is thatof the Nile (C. vulgaris, or C. Niloticus). The Florida crocodile (C.Americanus) is much less common than the alligator and has longerjaws. The name is also sometimes applied to the species of otherrelated genera, as the gavial and the alligator.
CROCODILIA
An order of reptiles including the crocodiles, gavials,alligators, and many extinct kinds.
CROCODILIAN
Like, or pertaining to, the crocodile; characteristic of thecrocodile.-- n.
CROCODILITY
A caption or sophistical mode of arguing. [R.]
CROCOISITE
Same as Crocoite.
CROCOITE
Lead chromate occuring in crystals of a bright hyacinth redcolor; -- called also red lead ore.
CROCONATE
A salt formed by the union of croconic acid with a base.
CROCOSE
A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtainedfrom the coloring matter of saffron. [Written also crokose.]
CROCUS
A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms risingseparately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest ofspring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, andblossoms in the autumn.
CROESUS
A king of Lydia who flourished in the 6th century b. c., andwas renowned for his vast wealth; hence, a common appellation for avery rich man; as, he is veritable Croesus.
CROFT
A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm.A few small crofts of stone-encumbered ground. Wordsworth.
CROFTER
One who rents and tills a small farm or helding; as, thecrofters of Scotland.
CROFTING
Exposing linen to the sun, on the grass, in the process ofbleaching.
CROFTLAND
Land of superior quality, on which successive crops are raised.[Scot.] Jamieson.
CROFTON SYSTEM
A system of prison discipline employing for consecutive periodscellular confinement, associated imprisonment under the mark system,restraint intermediate between imprisonment and freedom, andliberation on ticket of leave.
CROIS
See Cross, n. [Obs.]
CROISSANTE
Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of whichare so terminated.
CROKER
A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron. [Obs.] Holinshed.
CROMA
A quaver. [Obs.]
CROMLECH
A monument of rough stones composed of one or more large onessupported in a horizontal position upon others. They are foundchiefly in countris inhabited by the ancient Celts, and are of aperiod anterior to the introduction of Christianity into thesecountries.
CROMORNA
A certain reed stop in the organ, of a quality of toneresembling that of the oboe. [Corruptly written cromona.]
CRONEL
The iron head of a tilting spear.
CRONET
The coronet of a horse.
CRONIAN
Saturnian; -- applied to the North Polar Sea. [R.] Milton.
CRONSTEDTITE
A mineral consisting principally of silicate of iron, andcrystallizing in hexagonal prisms with perfect basal cleavage; -- sonamed from the Swedish mineralogist Cronstedt.
CROOK
A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc.,to change its pitch or key.
CROOKBACK
A crooked back; one who has a crooked or deformed back; ahunchback.
CROOKBILL
A New Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable forhaving the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right.
CROOKEDLY
In a curved or crooked manner; in a perverse or untowardmanner.
CROOKEDNESS
The condition or quality of being crooked; hence, deformity ofbody or of mind; deviation from moral rectitude; perverseness.
CROOKEN
To make crooked. [Obs.]
CROOKES SPACE
The dark space within the negative-pole glow at the cathode ofa vacuum tube, observed only when the pressure is low enough to givea striated discharge; -- called also Crookes layer.
CROOKES TUBE
A vacuum tube in which the exhaustion is carried to a very highdegree, with the production of a distinct class of effects; -- socalled from W. Crookes who introduced it.
CROOKNECK
Either of two varieties of squash, distinguished by theirtapering, recurved necks. The summer crookneck is botanically avariety of the pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) and matures early in theseason. It is pale yellow in color, with warty excrescences. Thewinter crookneck belongs to a distinct species (C. moschata) and issmooth and often striped. [U. S.]
CROP
A projecting ornament in carved stone. Specifically, a finial.[Obs.]
CROP-EAR
A person or animal whose ears are cropped.
CROP-EARED
Having the ears cropped.
CROP-TAILED
Having the tail cropped.
CROPFUL
Having a full crop or belly; satiated. Milton.
CROPPER
A machine for cropping, as for shearing off bolts or rod iron,or for facing cloth.
CROPSICK
Sick from excess in eating or drinking. [Obs.] "Cropsickdrunkards." Tate.-- Crop"sick`ness, n. [Obs.] Whitlock.
CROQUANTE
A brittle cake or other crisp pastry.
CROQUET
In the game of croquet, to drive away an opponent's ball, afterputting one's own in contact with it, by striking one's own ball withthe mallet.
CROQUETTE
A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highlyseasoned, and fried.
CRORE
Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly$5,000,000). [East Indies] Malcolm.
CROSIER
The pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, beingthe symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.
CROSIERED
Bearing a crosier.
CROSLET
See Crosslet.
CROSS
A monument in the form of a cross, or surmounted bu a cross,set up in a public place; as, a market cross; a boundary cross;Charing Cross in London.Dun-Edin's Cross, a pillared stone, Rose on a turret octagon. Sir W.Scott.
CROSS-ARMED
With arms crossed.
CROSS-BANDED
A term used when a narrow ribbon of veneer is inserted into thesurfase of any piece of furniture, wainscoting, etc., so that thegrain of it is contrary to the general surface.
CROSS-BEARER
A subdeacon who bears a cross before an archbishop or primateon solemn occasions.
CROSS-BIRTH
Any preternatural labor, in whiche the boly of the child liesacross the pelvis of the mother, so that the shoulder, arm, or trunkis the part first presented at the mouth of the uterus.
CROSS-BUN
A bun or cake marked with a cross, and intended to be eaten onGood Friday.
CROSS-BUTTOCK
A throw in which the wrestler turns his left side to hisopponent, places his left leg across both legs of his opponent, andpulls him forward over his hip; hence, an unexpected defeat orrepulse.
CROSS-CROSSLET
A cross having the three upper ends crossed, so as to fromthree small crosses.
CROSS-DAYS
The three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension.
CROSS-EXAMINATION
The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the partyagainst whom he has been called and examined. See Examination.
CROSS-EXAMINE
To examine or question, as a witness who has been called andexamined by the opposite party. "The opportunity to cross-examine thewitnesses." Kent.
CROSS-EXAMINER
One who cross-examines or conducts a crosse-examination.
CROSS-EYE
See Strabismus.
CROSS-EYED
Affected with strabismus; squint-eyed; squinting.
CROSS-FERTILIZE
To fertilize, as the stigmas of a flower or plant, with thepollen from another individual of the  same species.
CROSS-GARNET
A hinge having one strap perpendicular and the other straphorizontal giving it the form of an Egyptian or T cross.
CROSS-PAWL
Same as Cross-spale.
CROSS-PURPOSE
A conversational game, in which questions and answers are madeso as to involve ludicrous combinations of ideas. Pepys. To be atcross-purposes, to misunderstand or to act counter to one anotherwithout intending it; -- said of persons.
CROSS-QUESTION
To cross-examine; to subject to close questioning.
CROSS-READING
The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across thepage, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrouscombination of ideas.
CROSS-SPRINGER
One of the ribs in a groined arch, springing from the cornersin a diagonal direction.
CROSS-STITCH
A form of stitch, where the stitches are diagonal and in pairs,the thread of one stitch crossing that of the other. "Tent and cross-stitch." Sir W. Scott.-- Cross"-stitch`, v. t. & i.
CROSS-STONE
See Harmotome, and Staurotide.
CROSS-TAIL
A bar connecting the ends of the side rods or levers of abackaction or side-lever engine.
CROSS-TIE
A sleeper supporting and connecting the rails, and holding themin place.
CROSS-TINING
A mode of harrowing crosswise, or transversely to the ridges.Crabb.
CROSS-VAULTING
Vaulting formed by the intersection of two or more simplevaults.
CROSS-WEEK
Rogation week, when the cross was borne in processions.
CROSSBAR
A transverse bar or piece, as a bar across a door, or as theiron bar or stock which passes through the shank of an anchor toinsure its turning fluke down. Russell. Crossbar shot, a projectilewhich folds into a sphere for loading, but on leaving the gun expandsto a cross with a quarter ball at the end of each arm; -- used innaval actions for cutting the enemy's rigging.
CROSSBEAK
Same as Crossbill.
CROSSBEAM
A girder.
CROSSBILL
A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit,against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in thatsuit. Bouvier.
CROSSBITE
A deeption; a cheat. [Obs.]
CROSSBONES
A representation of two of the leg bones or arm bones of askeleton, laid crosswise, often surmounted with a skull, and servingas a symbol of death.Crossbones, scythes, hourglasses, and other lugubrios emblems ofmortality. Hawthorne.
CROSSBOW
A weapon, used in discharging arrows, formed by placing a bowcrosswise on a stock.
CROSSBOWER
A crossbowman.[Obs.]
CROSSBOWMAN
One who shoots with a crossbow. See Arbalest.
CROSSBRED
Produced by mixing distinct breeds; mongrel.
CROSSCUT
, v. t. To cut across or through; to intersect.
CROSSE
The implement with which the ball is thrown and caught in thegame of lacrosse.
CROSSFISH
A starfish.
CROSSFLOW
To flow across, or in a contrary direction. "His crossflowingcourse." Milton.
CROSSHATCH
To shade by means of crosshatching.
CROSSHATCHING
In drawing and line engraving, shading with lines that crossone another at an angle.
CROSSHEAD
A beam or bar across the head or end of a rod, etc., or a blockattached to it and carrying a knuckle pin; as the solid crosspiecerunning between parallel slides, which receives motion from thepiston of a steam engine and imparts it to the connecting rod, whichis hinged to the crosshead.
CROSSJACK
The lowest square sail, or the lower yard of the mizzenmast.
CROSSLEGGED
Having the legs crossed.
CROSSLET
A crucible. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CROSSLY
Athwart; adversely; unfortunately; peevishly; fretfully; withill humor.
CROSSNESS
The quality or state of being cross; peevishness; fretfulness;ill humor.
CROSSOPTERYGIAN
Of or pertaining to the Crossopterygii.-- n.
CROSSOPTERYGII
An order of ganoid fishes including among living species thebichir (Polypterus). See Brachioganoidei.
CROSSPATCH
An ill-natured person. [Colloq.] "Crosspatch, draw the latch."Mother Goose.
CROSSPIECE
A bar or timber connecting two knightheads or two bitts.
CROSSROAD
A road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting oravoiding the main road.
CROSSRUFF
The play in whist where partners trump each a different suit,and lead to each other for that purpose; -- called also seesaw.
CROSSTREES
Pieces of timber at a masthead, to which are attached the uppershrouds. At the head of lower masts in large vessels, they support asemicircular platform called the "top."
CROSSWAY
See Crossroad.
CROSSWISE
In the form of a cross; across; transversely. Longfellow.
CROSSWORT
A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves inwhorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc.
CROTALARIA
A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.
CROTALINE
Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnakefamily.
CROTALO
A Turkish musical instrument.
CROTALUM
A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes.
CROTALUS
A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes.
CROTAPHITE
The temple or temporal fossa. Also used adjectively.
CROTAPHITIC
Pertaining to the temple; temporal.
CROTCH
A stanchion or post of wood or iron, with two arms forsupporting a boom, spare yards, etc.; -- called also crane andcrutch. Totten.
CROTCH CHAIN
A form of tackle for loading a log sideways on a sled, skidway,etc.
CROTCHET
A time note, with a stem, having one fourth the value of asemibreve, one half that of a minim, and twice that of a quaver; aquarter note.
CROTCHETED
Marked or measured by crotchets; having musical notation.Harmar (1587).
CROTCHETINESS
The state or character of being crotchety, or whimsical.This belief in rightness is a kind of conscientiousness, and when itdegenerates it becomes crotchetiness. J. Grote.
CROTCHETY
Given to crotchets; subject to whims; as, a crotchety man.
CROTON
A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropicalcountries. Croton oil (Med.), a viscid, acrid, brownish yellow oilobtained from the seeds of Croton Tiglium, a small tree of the EastIndies. It is a most powerful drastic cathartic, and is usedexternally as a pustulant.
CROTON BUG
A small, active, winged species of cockroach (EctobiaGermanica), the water bug. It is common aboard ships, and in housesin cities, esp. in those with hot-water pipes.
CROTONIC
Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genusCroton, or from croton oil. Crotonic acid (Chem.), a whitecrystalline organic acid, C3H5.CO2H, of the ethylene, or acrylic acidseries. It was so named because formerly supposed to exist in crotonoil. Also, any acid metameric with crotonic acid proper.
CROTONINE
A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it withwater and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of theoil. Watts.
CROTONYLENE
A colorless, volatile, pungent liquid, C4H6, producedartificially, and regarded as an unsaturated hydrocarbon of theacetylene series, and analogous to crotonic acid.
CROTTLES
A name given to various lichens gathered for dyeing. [Scot.]
CROUCHED
Marked with the sign of the cross. [Obs.] Crouched friar. SeeCrutched friar, under Crutched.
CROUD
See Crowd, a violin.
CROUKE
A crock; a jar. [Obs.] Chauser.
CROUP
The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especiallyof a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle.So light to the croup the fair lady he swung, So light to the saddlebefore her he sprung. Sir W. Scott.
CROUPADE
A leap in which the horse pulls up his hind legs toward hisbelly.
CROUPAL
Croupy.
CROUPER
See Crupper.
CROUPOUS
Relating to or resembling croup; especially, attended with theformation of a deposit or membrance like that found in membranouscroup; as, croupous laryngitis. Croupous pneumonia, pneumoniaattended with deposition of fibrinous matter in the air vesicles ofthe lungs; ordinary acute pneumonia.
CROUPY
Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as,a croupy cough.
CROUSE
Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent. [Scot.] Burns.
CROUSTADE
Bread baked in a mold, and scooped out, to serve minces upon.Bishop.
CROUT
See Sourkrout.
CROUTON
Bread cut in various forms, and fried lightly in butter or oil,to garnish hashes, etc.
CROW
A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strongconical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croakingnote. See Caw.
CROW-QUILL
A quill of the crow, or a very fine pen made from such a quill.
CROW-SILK
A filamentous fresh-water alga (Conferva rivularis of Linnaeus,Rhizoclonium rivulare of Kutzing).
CROW-TRODDEN
Marked with crow's-feet, or wrinkles, about the eyes. [Poetic]Do I look as if I were crow-trodden Beau. & FL.
CROWBAR
A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever.
CROWBERRY
A heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, ablack, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry.
CROWD
An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind ofviolin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow.[Written also croud, crowth, cruth, and crwth.]A lackey that . . . can warble upon a crowd a little. B. Jonson.
CROWDER
One who plays on a crowd; a fiddler. [Obs.] "Some blindcrowder." Sir P. Sidney.
CROWDY
A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of theporridge kind. [Scot.]
CROWFLOWER
A kind of campion; according to Gerarde, the Lychnis Flos-cuculi.
CROWFOOT
The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds,others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.
CROWKEEPER
A person employed to scare off crows; hence, a scarecrow.[Obs.]Scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper. Shak.
CROWN
p. p. of Crow. [Obs.]
CROWN COLONY
A colony of the British Empire not having an electivemagistracy or a parliament, but governed by a chief magistrate(called Governor) appointed by the Crown, with executive councilorsnominated by him and not elected by the people.
CROWN OFFICE
The criminal branch of the Court of King's or Queen's Bench,commonly called the crown side of the court, which takes cognizanceof all criminal cases. Burrill.
CROWN SIDE
See Crown office.
CROWN WHEEL
A wheel with cogs or teeth set at right angles to its plane; --called also a contrate wheel or face wheel.
CROWN-IMPERIAL
A spring-blooming plant (Fritillaria imperialis) of the Lilyfamily, having at the top of the stalk a cluster of pendent bell-shaped flowers surmounted with a tuft of green leaves.
CROWN-POST
Same as King-post.
CROWN-SAW
A saw in the form of a hollow cylinder, with teeth on the endor edge, and operated by a rotative motion.
CROWNER
A coroner. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.]
CROWNLAND
In Austria-Hungary, one of the provinces, or largestadministrative divisions of the monarchy; as, the crownland of LowerAustria.
CROWNLESS
Without a crown.
CROWNLET
A coronet. [Poetic] Sir W. Scott.
CROWNWORK
A work consisting of two or more bastioned fronts, with theiroutworks, covering an enceinte, a bridgehead, etc., and connected bywings with the main work or the river bank.
CROWS
A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; --also called Upsarokas.
CROWSTEP
See Corriestep.
CROWSTONE
The top stone of the gable end of a house. Halliwell.
CROWTH
An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd.
CROYDON
A kind of carriage like a gig, orig. of wicker-work.
CROYLSTONE
Crystallized cawk, in which the crystals are small.
CROYS
See Cross, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CROZE
A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks,etc.; also, the groove itself.
CROZIER
See Crosier.
CROZIERED
Crosiered.
CRUCIAN CARP
A kind of European carp (Carasius vulgaris), inferior to thecommon carp; -- called also German carp.
CRUCIATE
Having the leaves or petals arranged in the form of a cross;cruciform.
CRUCIATION
The act of torturing; torture; torment. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
CRUCIBLE STEEL
Cast steel made by fusing in crucibles crude or scrap steel,wrought iron, and other ingredients and fluxes.
CRUCIFER
Any plant of the order Cruciferรฆ.
CRUCIFEROUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which havefour petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard,radish, turnip, etc.
CRUCIFIER
One who crucifies; one who subjects himself or another to apainful trial.
CRUCIFORM
Cross-shaped; (Bot.) having four parts arranged in the form ofa cross.
CRUCIGEROUS
Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross. Sir. T.Browne.
CRUD
See Curd. [Obs.]
CRUDDLE
To curdle. [Obs.]See how thy blood cruddles at this. Bea
CRUDE
Harsh and offensive, as a color; tawdry or in bad taste, as acombination of colors, or any design or work of art.
CRUDELY
In a crude, immature manner.
CRUDENESS
A crude, undigested, or unprepared state; rawness; unripeness;immatureness; unfitness for a destined use or purpose; as, thecrudeness of iron ore; crudeness of theories or plans.
CRUDLE
See Cruddle.
CRUDY
Coagulated. [Obs.]His cruel wounds with crudy blood congealed. Spenser.
CRUEL
See Crewel.
CRUELNESS
Cruelty. [Obs.] Spenser.
CRUELS
Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.
CRUENTATE
Smeared with blood. [Obs.] Glanwill.
CRUENTOUS
Bloody; cruentate. [Obs.]
CRUET
A vessel used to hold wine, oil, or water for the service ofthe altar. Cruet stand, a frame for holding cruets; a caster.
CRUISE
See Cruse, a small bottle.
CRUISER
One who, or a vessel that, cruises; -- usually an armed vessel.
CRUIVE
A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel.[Scot.]
CRULL
Curly; curled. [Obs.]
CRULLER
A kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, andfried crisp in boiling fat. [Also written kruller.]
CRUMB
To break into crumbs or small pieces with the fingers; as, tocrumb bread. [Written also crum.]
CRUMBCLOTH
A cloth to be laid under a dining table to receive fallingfragments, and keep the carpet or floor clean. [Written alsocrumcloth.]
CRUMBLE
To break into small pieces; to cause to fall in pieces.He with his bare wand can unthread thy joints, And crumble all thysinews. Milton.
CRUMBLY
EAsily crumbled; friable; brittle. "The crumbly soil."Hawthorne.
CRUMENAL
A purse. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
CRUMMABLE
Capable of being crumbed or broken into small pieces.
CRUMPET
A kind of large. thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, andcooked on a griddle or spider.
CRUMPLE
To draw or press into wrinkles or folds to crush together; torumple; as, to crumple paper.They crumpled it into all shapes, and diligently scanned everywrinkle that could be made. Addison.
CRUMPY
Brittle; crisp. Wright.
CRUNCH
To crush with the teeth; to chew with a grinding noise; tocraunch; as, to crunch a biscuit.
CRUNODAL
Possessing, or characterized by, a crunode; -- used of curves.
CRUNODE
A point where one branch of a curve crosses another branch. SeeDouble point, under Double, a.
CRUOR
The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion ofcoagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore.
CRUORIN
The coloring matter of the blood in the living animal;hรฆmoglobin.
CRUP
Short; brittle; as, crup cake. Todd.
CRUPPER
To fit with a crupper; to place a crupper upon; as, to cruppera horse.
CRURA
See Crus.
CRURAL
Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the partscalled crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal;crural ring.
CRUSADE
To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headedmanner. "Cease crusading against sense." M. Green.
CRUSADER
One engaged in a crusade; as, the crusaders of the Middle Ages.Azure-eyed and golden-haired, Forth the young crusaders fared.Longfellow.
CRUSADING
Of or pertaining to a crusade; as, a crusading spirit.
CRUSADO
An old Portuguese coin, worth about seventy cents. [Writtenalso cruade.] Shak.
CRUSET
A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot.
CRUSH
To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smallercompass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily.
CRUSHER
One who, or that which, crushes. Crusher gauge, an instrumentfor measuring the explosive force of gunpowder, etc., by its effectin compressing a piece of metal.
CRUSHING
That crushes; overwhelming. "The blow must be quick andcrushing." Macualay.
CRUST
The exterior portion of the earth, formerly universallysupposed to inclose a molten interior.
CRUSTACEA
One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters andcrabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they arecovered.
CRUSTACEAN
Of or pertaining to the Crustacea; crustaceous.-- n.
CRUSTACEOLOGICAL
Pertaining to crustaceology.
CRUSTACEOLOGIST
One versed in crustaceology; a crustalogist.
CRUSTACEOLOGY
That branch of Zoรถlogy which treats of the Crustacea;malacostracology; carcinology.
CRUSTACEOUS
Belonging to the Crustacea; crustacean.
CRUSTACEOUSNESS
The state or quality of being crustaceous or having a crustlikeshell.
CRUSTAL
Relating to a crust.
CRUSTALOGICAL
Pertaining to crustalogy.
CRUSTALOGIST
One versed in crustalogy.
CRUSTALOGY
Crustaceology.
CRUSTATED
Covered with a crust; as, crustated basalt.
CRUSTATION
An adherent crust; an incrustation. Pepys.
CRUSTED
Incrusted; covered with, or containing, crust; as, old, crustedport wine.
CRUSTIFIC
Producing or forming a crust or skin. [R.]
CRUSTILY
In a crusty or surly manner; morosely.
CRUSTY
Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kindat heart; snappish; peevish; surly.Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news Shak.
CRUT
The rough, shaggy part of oak bark.
CRUTCH
To support on crutches; to prop up. [R.]Two fools that crutch their feeble sense on verse. Dryden.
CRUTCHED
Marked with the sign of the cross; crouched. Crutched friar(Eccl.), one of a religious order, so called because its members borethe sign of the cross on their staves and habits; -- called alsocrossed friar and crouched friar.
CRUTH
See 4th Crowd.
CRUX
Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain. Dr.Sheridan.The perpetual crux of New Testament chronologists. Strauss.
CRUX ANSATA
A cross in the shape of the ankh.
CRUZADO
A coin. See Crusado.
CRWTH
See 4th Crowd.
CRYAL
The heron [Obs.] Ainsworth.
CRYER
The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil.
CRYING
Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous;as, a crying evil.Too much fondness for meditative retirement is not the crying sin ofour modern Christianity. I. Taylor.
CRYOHYDRATE
A substance, as salt, ammonium chloride, etc., whichcrystallizes with water of crystallization only at low temperatures,or below the freezing point of water. F. Guthrie.
CRYOLITE
A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in whitecleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.
CRYOMETER
A thermometer for the measurement of low temperatures, esp.such an instrument containing alcohol or some other liquid of a lowerfreezing point than mercury.
CRYOPHORUS
An instrument used to illustrate the freezing of water by itsown evaporation. The ordinary form consist of two glass bulbs,connected by a tube of the same material, and containing only aquantity of water and its vapor, devoid of air. The water is in oneof the bulbs, and freezes when the other is cooled below 32ยบ Fahr.
CRYPT
A simple gland, glandular cavity, or tube; a follicle; as, thecryps of Lieberk.
CRYPTAL
Of or pertaining to crypts.
CRYPTICALLY
Secretly; occultly.
CRYPTIDINE
One of the quinoline bases, obtained from coal tar as an oilyliquid, C11H11N; also, any one of several substances metameric with,and resembling, cryptidine proper.
CRYPTOBRANCHIATE
Having concealed or rudimentary gills.
CRYPTOCRYSTALLINE
Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals,whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles arevisible, even under the microscope.
CRYPTOGAM
A plant belonging to the Cryptogamia. Henslow.
CRYPTOGAMIA
The series or division of flowerless plants, or those neverhaving true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of variouskinds.
CRYPTOGAMIST
One skilled in cryptogamic botany.
CRYPTOGRAM
A cipher writing. Same as Cryptograph.
CRYPTOGRAPH
Cipher; something written in cipher. "Decipherers ofcryptograph." J. Earle.
CRYPTOGRAPHAL
Pertaining to cryptography; cryptographical. Boyle.
CRYPTOGRAPHER
One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.
CRYPTOGRAPHIST
Same as Cryptographer.
CRYPTOGRAPHY
The act or art of writing in secret characters; also, secretcharacters, or cipher.
CRYPTOLOGY
Secret or enigmatical language. Johnson.
CRYPTONYM
A secret name; a name by which a person is known only to theinitiated.
CRYPTOPINE
A colorless crystalline alkaloid obtained in small quantitiesfrom opium.
CRYPTURI
An order of flying, dromTinamou.
CRYSTAL
The regular form which a substance tends to assume insolidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction. It isbounded by plane surfaces, symmetrically arranged, and each speciesof crystal has fixed axial ratios. See Crystallization.
CRYSTALLIN
See Gobulin.
CRYSTALLITE
A minute mineral form like those common in glassy volcanicrocks and some slags, not having a definite crystalline outline andnot referable to any mineral species, but marking the first step inthe crystallization process. According to their form crystallites arecalled trichites, belonites, globulites, etc.
CRYSTALLIZABLE
Capable of being crystallized; that may be formed intocrystals.
CRYSTALLIZATION
The act or process by which a substance in solidifying assumesthe form and sructure of a crystal, or becomes crystallized.
CRYSTALLIZE
To cause to form crystals, or to assume the crystalline form.
CRYSTALLOGENY
The science which pertains to the production of crystals.
CRYSTALLOGRAPHER
One who describes crystals, or the manner of their formation;one versed in crystallography.
CRYSTALLOGRAPHICALLY
In the manner of crystallography.
CRYSTALLOID
Crystal-like; transparent like crystal.
CRYSTALLOMANCY
Divination by means of a crystal or other transparent body,especially a beryl.
CRYSTALLOMETRY
The art of measuring crystals.
CRYSTALLURGY
Crystallizaton.
CTENOCYST
An organ of the Ctenophora, supposed to be sensory.
CTENOID
A ctenoidean.
CTENOIDEAN
Relating to the Ctenoidei.-- n.
CTENOIDEI
A group of fishes, established by Agassiz, characterized byhaving scales with a pectinated margin, as in the perch. The group isnow generally regarded as artificial.
CTENOPHORA
A class of Coelenterata, commonly ellipsoidal in shape,swimming by means of eight longitudinal rows of paddles. The separatepaddles somewhat resemble combs.
CTENOPHORE
(Zoรถl.) One of the Ctenophora.
CTENOSTOMATA
A suborder of Bryozoa, usually having a circle of bristlesbelow the tentacles.
CUB
To bring forth; -- said of animals, or in contempt, of persons."Cubb'd in a cabin." Dryden.
CUBAN
Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants.-- n.
CUBATION
The act of lying down; a reclining. [Obs.]
CUBATORY
Lying down; recumbent. [R.]
CUBATURE
The process of determining the solid or cubic contents of abody.
CUBBRIDGE-HEAD
A bulkhead on the forecastle and half deck of a ship.
CUBDRAWN
Sucked by cubs. [R.]This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch. Shak.
CUBE
A regular solid body, with six equal square sides.
CUBEB
The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; inmed., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but nowcultivated in various tropical countries. The dried unripe fruit ismuch used in medicine as a stimulant and purgative.
CUBEBIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, cubebs; as, cubebic acid (asoft olive-green resin extracted from cubebs).
CUBHOOD
The state of being a cub. [Jocose] "From cubhood to old age."W. B. Dawkins.
CUBIC
A curve of the third degree. Circular cubic. See underCircular.
CUBICALLY
In a cubical method.
CUBICALNESS
The quality of being cubical.
CUBICLE
A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from alarge dormitory.
CUBICULAR
Belonging to a chamber or bedroom. [Obs.] Howell.
CUBIFORM
Of the form of a cube.
CUBILE
The lowest course of stones in a building.
CUBILOSE
A mucilagenous secretion of certain birds found as thecharacteristic ingredient of edible bird's-nests.
CUBISM
A movement or phase in post-impressionism (which see, below). -- Cu"bist (#), n.
CUBIT
The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbowto wrist. [Obs.]
CUBITAL
A sleeve covering the arm from the elbow to the hand. Crabb.
CUBITED
Having the measure of a cubit.
CUBLESS
Having no cubs. Byron.
CUBO-OCTAHEDRAL
Presenting a combination of a cube and an octahedron.
CUBO-OCTAHEDRON
A combination of a cube and octahedron, esp. one in which theoctahedral faces meet at the middle of the cubic edges.
CUBOID
Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot.-- n. (Anat.)
CUBOIDAL
Cuboid.
CUCA
See Coca.
CUCKING STOOL
A kind of chair formerly used for punishing scolds, and alsodishonest tradesmen, by fastening them in it, usually in front oftheir doors, to be pelted and hooted at by the mob, but sometimes tobe taken to the water and ducked; -- called also a castigatory, atumbrel, and a trebuchet; and often, but not so correctly, a duckingstool. Sir. W. Scott.
CUCKOLD
To make a cuckold of, as a husband, by seducing his wife, or byher becoming an adulteress. Shak.
CUCKOLDIZE
To cuckold. Dryden.
CUCKOLDLY
Having the qualities of a cuckold; mean-spirited; sneaking.Shak.
CUCKOLDOM
The state of a cuckold; cuckolds, collectively. Addison.
CUCKOLDRY
The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.
CUCKOO
A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several alliedgenera, of many species.
CUCKOOBUD
A species of Ranunculus (R. bulbosus); -- called alsobutterflower, buttercup, kingcup, goldcup. Shak.
CUCKOOFLOWER
A species of Cardamine (C. pratensis), or lady's smock. Itsleaves are used in salads. Also, the ragged robin (Lychnis Flos-cuculi).
CUCKOOPINT
A plant of the genus Arum (A. maculatum); the European wake-robin.
CUCQUEAN
A woman whose husband is unfaithful to her. [Obs.]
CUCUJO
The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.
CUCULLUS
A hood-shaped organ, resembling a cowl or monk's hood, ascertain concave and arched sepals or petals.
CUCULOID
Like or belonging to the cuckoos (Cuculidรฆ).
CUCUMBER
A creeping plant, and its fruit, of several species of thegenus Cucumis, esp. Cucumis sativus, the unripe fruit of which iseaten either fresh or picked. Also, similar plants or fruits ofseveral other genera. See below. Bitter cucumber (Bot.), theCitrullus or Cucumis Colocynthis. SeeColocynth.-- Cucumber beetle. (Zoรถl.) (a) A small, black flea-beetle(Crepidodera cucumeris), which destroys the leaves of cucumber,squash, and melon vines. (b) The squash beetle.-- Cucumber tree.(a) A large ornamental or shade tree of the genusMagnolia (M. acuminata), so called from a slight resemblance of itsyoung fruit to a small cucumber. (b) An East Indian plant (AverrhoaBilimbi) which produces the fruit known as bilimbi.-- Jamaica cucumber, Jerusalem cucumber, the prickly-fruited gherkin(Cucumis Anguria).-- Snake cucumber, a species (Cucumis flexuosus) remarkable for itslong, curiously-shaped fruit.-- Squirting cucumber, a plant (Ecbalium Elaterium) whose small ovalfruit separates from the footstalk when ripe and expels its seeds andjuice with considerable force through the opening thus made. SeeElaterium.-- Star cucumber,a climbing weed (Sicyos angulatus) with pricklyfruit.
CUCUMIFORM
Having the form of a cucumber; having the form of a cylindertapered and rounded at the ends, and either straight or curved.
CUCUMIS
A genus of plants including the cucumber, melon, and same kindsof gourds.
CUCURBITACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants of whichthe cucumber, melon, and gourd are common examples.
CUCURBITIVE
Having the shape of a gourd seed; -- said of certain smallworms.
CUDBEAR
A lichen (Lecanora tartarea), from which the powder isobtained.
CUDDEN
The coalfish. See 3d Cuddy.
CUDDLE
ToShe cuddles low beneath the brake; Nor would she stay, nor dares shefly. Prior.
CUDDY
A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling uprailroad ties, etc. Knight.
CUDGEL
A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, andwielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon.He getteth him a grievous crabtree cudgel and . . . falls to ratingof them as if they were dogs. Bunyan.Cudgel play, a fight or sportive contest with cudgels.-- To cross the cudgels, to forbear or give up the contest; -- aphrase borrowed from the practice of cudgel players, who lay onecudgel over another when the contest is ended.-- To take up cudgels for, to engage in a contest in behalf of (someone or something).
CUDGELER
One who beats with a cudgel. [Written also cudgeller.]
CUDWEED
A small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves,primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to manyplants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.; cottonweed.
CUE
To form into a cue; to braid; to twist.
CUERPO
The body. In cuerpo, without full dress, so that the shape ofthe Body is exposed; hence, naked or uncovered.Exposed in cuerpo to their rage. Hudibras.
CUESTA
A sloping plain, esp. one with the upper end at the crest of acliff; a hill or ridge with one face steep and the opposite facegently sloping. [Southwestern U. S.]
CUFF
To fight; to scuffle; to box.While the peers cuff to make the rabble sport. Dryden.
CUFFY
A name for a negro. [Slang]
CUFIC
Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabiclanguage. [Written also Kufic.]
CUI BONO
Lit., for whose benefit; incorrectly understood, it came to beused in the sense, of what good or use; and hence, (what) purpose;object; specif., the ultimate object of life.
CUINAGE
The stamping of pigs of tin, by the proper officer, with thearms of the duchy of Cornwall.
CUIR BOUILLI
In decorative art, boiled leather, fitted by the process toreceive impressed patterns, like those produced by chasing metal, andto retain the impression permanently.
CUIRASS
An armor of bony plates, somewhat resembling a cuirass.
CUIRASSED
Having a covering of bony plates, resembling a cuirass;- saidof certain fishes.
CUIRASSIER
A soldier armed with a cuirass. Milton.
CUISH
Defensive armor for the thighs. [ Written also cuisse, andquish.]
CUL-DE-SAC
a position in which an army finds itself with no way of exitbut to the front.
CULASSE
The lower faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond.
CULDEE
One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts ofScotland, Ireland, and Wales.The pure Culdees Were Albyn's earliest priests of God. Campbell.
CULERAGE
See Culrage.
CULEX
A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito.
CULICID
Like or pertaining to the Mosquito family (Culicidรฆ). -- n.
CULICIFORM
Gnat-shaped.
CULINARILY
In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen orcooking.
CULINARY
Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used inkitchens; as, a culinary vessel; the culinary art.
CULL
To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather orcollect; as, to cuil flowers.From his herd he culls, For slaughter, from the fairest of his bulls.Dryden.Whitest honey in fairy gardens culled. Tennyson.
CULLENDER
A strainer. See Colander.
CULLER
One who piks or chooses; esp., an inspector who select waressuitable for market.
CULLET
Broken glass for remelting.
CULLIBILITY
Gullibility. [R.] Swift.
CULLIBLE
Easily deceived; gullible.
CULLING
Anything separated or selected from a mass.
CULLION
A mean wretch; a base fellow; a poltroon; a scullion. "Away,base cullions." Shak.
CULLIONLY
Mean; base. Shak.
CULLIS
A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids;also, a savory jelly. [Obs.]When I am exellent at caudles And cullises . . . you shall be welcometo me. Beau. & Fl.
CULLY
A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe;a gull.I have learned that . . . I am not the first cully whom she haspassed upon for a countess. Addison.
CULLYISM
The state of being a cully.Less frequent instances of eminent cullyism. Spectator.
CULM
The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo),jointed and usually hollow.
CULMEN
The dorsal ridge of a bird's bill.
CULMIFEROUS
Having jointed stems or culms.
CULMINAL
Pertaining to a culmen.
CULMINANT
Being vertical, or at the highest point of altitude; hence,predominant. [R.]
CULMINATE
Growing upward, as distinguished from a laterral growth; --applied to the growth of corals. Dana.
CULPA
Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit,fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect ofintellect, dolus to defect of heart. Wharton.
CULPABILITY
The state of being culpable.
CULPATORY
Expressing blame; censuring; reprehensory; inculpating.Adjectives . . . commonly used by Latian authors in a culpatorysense. Walpole.
CULPE
Blameworthiness. [Obs.]Banished out of the realme . . . without culpe. E. Hall.
CULPON
A shered; a fragment; a strip of wood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CULRAGE
Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).
CULTCH
Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oystergrounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of theoyster. [Also written cutch.]
CULTER
A colter. See Colter.
CULTIROSTRAL
Having a bill shaped like the colter of a plow, or like aknife, as the heron, stork, etc.
CULTIROSTRES
A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc.
CULTIVABLE
Capable of being cultivated or tilled. Todd.
CULTIVATABLE
Cultivable.
CULTIVATOR
Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as thebeak of certain birds.
CULTRIFORM
Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate.
CULTRIVOROUS
Devouring knives; swallowing, or pretending to swallow, knives;-- applied to persons who have swallowed, or have seemed to swallow,knives with impunity. Dunglison.
CULTURABLE
Capable of, or fit for, being cultivated; capable or becomingcultured. London Spectator.
CULTURAL
Of or pertaining to culture.
CULTURE
To cultivate; to educate.They came . . . into places well inhabited and cultured. Usher.
CULTURE FEATURES
The artificial features of a district as distinguished from thenatural.
CULTURE MYTH
A myth accounting for the discovery of arts and sciences or theadvent of a higher civilization, as in the Prometheus myth.
CULTURELESS
Having no culture.
CULTUS
Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship;state of religious development. Cf.Cult, 2.
CULTUS COD
See Cod, and Buffalo cod, under Buffalo.
CULVER
A dove. "Culver in the falcon's fist." Spenser.
CULVERHOUSE
A dovecote.
CULVERIN
A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder withserpent-shaped handles.Trump, and drum, and roaring culverin. Mac
CULVERKEY
The root of a handsome erect herb (Leptandra, syn. Veronica,Virginica) common in most moist woods of North America , used as anactive cathartic and emetic; also, the plant itself.
CULVERT
A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road,railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge.
CULVERTAIL
Dovetail.
CULVERTAILED
United or fastened by a dovetailed joint.
CUMACEA
An order of marine Crustacea, mostly of small size.
CUMBENT
Lying down; recumbent. J. Dyer.
CUMBER
To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to beburdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining anobject, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble.Why asks he what avails him not in fight, And would but cumber andretard his flight Dryden.Martha was cumbered about much serving. Luke x. 40.Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground Luke xiii. 7.The multiplying variety of arguments, especially frivolous ones, . .. but cumbers the memory. Locke.
CUMBRANCE
Encumbrance. [Obs.]Extol not riches then, the toil of fools, The wise man's cumbrance,if not snare. Milton.
CUMBRIAN
Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocksfound there. Cumbrian system (Geol.), the slate or graywacke systemof rocks, now included in the Cambrian or Silurian system; -- socalled because most prominent at Cumberland.
CUMENE
A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by thedistillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol.
CUMFREY
See Comfrey.
CUMIC
See Cuming.
CUMIDINE
A strong, liquid, organic base, C3H7.C6H4.NH2, homologous withaniline.
CUMIN
A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel(Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish,warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of aniseand caraway. [Written also cummin.]Rank-smelling rue, and cumin good for eyes. Spenser.Black cumin (Bot.), a plant (Nigella sativa) with pungent seeds, usedby the Afghans, etc.
CUMINIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, cumin, or from oil of caraway;as, cuminic acid. Cuminic acid (Chem.), white crystalline substance,C3H7.C6H4.CO2H, obtained from oil of caraway.
CUMINIL
A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway.
CUMINOL
A liquid, C3H7.C6H4.CHO, obtained from oil of caraway; --called also cuminic aldehyde.
CUMMERBUND
A sash for the waist; a girdle. [India]
CUMMIN
Same as Cumin.Ye pay tithe of mint, and cummin. Matt. xxiii. 23.
CUMQUAT
See Kumquat.
CUMSHAW
A present or bonus; -- originally applied to that paid on shipswhich entered the port of Canton. S. Wells Williams.
CUMU-CIRRO-STRATUS
Nimbus, or rain cloud. See Nimbus, and Cloud.
CUMULATE
To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; toaccumulate.Shoals of shells, bedded and cumulated heap upon heap. Woodward.
CUMULATION
The act of heaping together; a heap. See Accumulation.
CUMULATIST
One who accumulates; one who collects. [R.]
CUMULOSE
Full of heaps.
CUMULOSTRATUS
A form of cloud. See Cloud.
CUMULUS
One of the four principal forms of clouds. SeeCloud.
CUN
To con (a ship). [Obs.]
CUNABULA
The extant copies of the first or earliest printed books, or ofsuch as were printed in the 15th century.
CUNCTATION
Delay; procrastination. [R.] Carlyle.
CUNCTATIVE
Slow; tardy; dilatory; causing delay.
CUNCTATOR
One who delays or lingers. [R.]
CUNCTIPOTENT
All-powerful; omnipotent. [R] "God cunctipotent." Neale (Trans.Rhythm of St. Bernard).
CUND
To con (a ship). [Obs.]
CUNDURANGO
The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of theMilkweed family. It has been supposed, but erroneously, to be a curefor cancer. [Written also condurango.]
CUNEAL
Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.
CUNEATIC
Cuneiform. "Cuneatic decipherment." Sayce.
CUNETTE
A drain trench, in a ditch or moat; -- called also cuvette.
CUNNINGLY
In a cunning manner; with cunning.
CUNNINGMAN
A fortune teller; one who pretends to reveal mysteries. [Obs.]Hudibras.
CUNNINGNESS
Quality of being cunning; craft.
CUP
Repeated potations; social or exessive indulgence inintoxicating drinks; revelry.Thence from cups to civil broils. Milton.
CUP SHAKE
A shake or fissure between the annual rings of a tree, foundoftenest near the roots.
CUP-GALL
A kind of oak-leaf gall. See Gall.
CUP-MOSS
A kind of lichen, of the genus Cladonia.
CUP-ROSE
Red poppy. See Cop-rose.
CUPBEARER
One of the attendants of a prince or noble, permanently chargedwith the performance of this office for his master. "I was the king'scupbearer." Neh. i. 11.
CUPBOARD
To collect, as into a cupboard; to hoard. [R.] Shak.
CUPEL
A shallow porus cup, used in refining precious metals, commonlymade of bone ashes (phosphate of lime). [Written also coppel.] Cupeldust, powder used in purifying metals.
CUPELLATION
The act or process of refining gold or silver, etc., in acupel.
CUPFUL
As much as a cup will hold.
CUPID
The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked,winged boy with bow and arrow.Pretty dimpled boys, like smiling cupids. Shak.
CUPOLA
A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also,a celing having the same form. When on a large scale it is usuallycalled dome.
CUPPER
One who performs the operation of cupping.
CUPPING
The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of theperson by forming a partial vacuum over the spot. Also, sometimes, asimilar operation for drawing pus from an abscess. Cupping glass, aglass cup in which a partial vacuum is produced by heat, in theprocess of cupping.-- Dry cupping, the application of a cupping instrument withoutscarification, to draw blood to the surface, produce counterirritation, etc.-- Wet cupping, the operation of drawing blood by the application ofa cupping instrument after scarification.
CUPREOUS
Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery.
CUPRIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper;-- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is presentin its lowest proportion.
CUPRIFEROUS
Containing copper; as, cupriferous silver.
CUPRITE
The red oxide of copper; red copper; an important ore ofcopper, occurring massive and in isometric crystals.
CUPROID
(Crystalloq.) A solid related to a tetrahedron, and containedunder twelve equal triangles.
CUPROUS
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper;-- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is presentin its highest proportion.
CUPRUM
Copper.
CUPULATE
Having or bearing cupeles; cupuliferous.
CUPULE
A cuplet or little cup, as the acorn; the husk or bur of thefilbert, chestnut, etc.
CUPULIFEROUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants ot whichthe oak and the chestnut are examples, -- trees bearing a smooth,solid nut inclosed in some kind of cup or bur; bearing, or furnishedwith, a cupule.
CURABILITY
The state of being curable; curableness.
CURABLE
Capable of being cured; admitting remedy. "Curable diseases."Harvey.-- Cur"a*ble*ness, n.-- Cur`a*bly, adv.
CURACY
The office or employment of a curate.
CURARINE
A deadly alkaloid extracted from the curare poison and from theStrychnos toxifera. It is obtained in crystalline colorless salts.
CURARIZE
To poison with curare.
CURASSOW
A large gallinaceous bird of the American genera Crax, Ourax,etc., of the family Cracidรฆ.
CURAT
A cuirass or breastplate. [Obs.] Spenser.
CURATE
One who has the cure souls; originally, any clergyman, but nowusually limited to one who assist a rector or vicar Hook.All this the good old man performed alone, He spared no pains, forcurate he had none. Dryden.
CURATESHIP
A curacy.
CURATION
Cure; healing. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CURATIVE
Relating to, or employed in, the cure of diseases; tending tocure. Arbuthnot.
CURATORSHIP
The office of a curator.
CURB
To bend; to crouch; to cringe. [Obs.]Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg, Yea, curb and woo for leave todo him good. Shak.
CURB ROOF
A roof having a double slope, or composed, on each side, of twoparts which have unequal inclination; a gambrel roof.
CURBLESS
Having no curb or restraint.
CURBSTONE
A stone Curbstone broker.See under Broker.
CURCH
See Courche.
CURCULIO
One of a large group of beetles (Rhynchophora) of many genera;-- called also weevils, snout beetles, billbeetles, and billbugs.Many of the species are very destructive, as the plum curculio, thecorn, grain, and rice weevils, etc.
CURCULIONIDOUS
Pertaining to the Curculionideรฆ, or weevil tribe.
CURCUMA
A genus of plants of the order Scitamineรฆ, including theturmeric plant (Curcuma longa). Curcuma paper. (Chem.) See Turmericpaper, under Turmeric.
CURCUMIN
The coloring principle of turmeric, or curcuma root, extractedas an orange yellow crystalline substance, C14H14O4, with a greenfluorescence.
CURD
To cause to coagulate or thicken; to cause to congeal; tocurdle.Does it curd thy blood To say I am thy mother Shak.
CURDINESS
The state of being curdy.
CURDLESS
Destitute of curd.
CURDY
Like curd; full of curd; coagulated. "A curdy mass." Arbuthnot.
CURE
A curate; a pardon.
CUREALL
A remedy for all diseases, o
CURELESS
Incapable of cure; incurable.With patience undergo A cureless ill, since fate will have it so.Dryden.
CURETTE
A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, forremoving substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear,or womb.
CURIA
The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; hisresidence or his household. Burrill.
CURIAL
Of or pertaining to the papal curia; as, the curial etiquetteof the Vatican. -- n.
CURIALISM
The wiew or doctrins of the ultramontane party in the LatinChurch. Gladstone.
CURIALIST
One who belongs to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.Shipley.
CURIALITY
The privileges, prerogatives, or retinue of a court. [Obs.]Bacon.
CURIET
A cuirass. [Obs.] Spenser.
CURING
p. a. & vb. n. of Cure. Curing house, a building in whichanything is cured; especially, in the West Indies, a building inwhich sugar is drained and dried.
CURIO
Any curiosity or article of virtu.The busy world, which does not hunt poets as collectors hunt forcurios. F. Harrison.
CURIOLOGIC
Pertaining to a rude kind of hieroglyphics, in which a thing isrepresented by its picture instead of by a symbol.
CURIOSO
A virtuoso.
CURIOUSLY
In a curious manner.
CURL
To shape (the brim) into a curve.
CURLED
Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maplehaving fibers which take a sinnuous course). Curled hair (Com.), thehair of the manes and tails of horses, prepared for upholsterypurposes. McElrath.
CURLEDNESS
State of being curled; curliness.
CURLEW
A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long,slender, curved bill.
CURLINESS
State of being curly.
CURLINGLY
With a curl, or curls.
CURLY
Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples;crinkled.
CURLYCUE
Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen onpaper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper.[Sometimes written carlicue.] [ Colloq. U.S.] To cut a curlycue, tomake a flourish; to cut a caper.I gave a flourishing about the room and cut a curlycue with my rightfoot. McClintock.
CURMUDGEON
An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl.A gray-headed curmudgeon of a negro. W. Irving.
CURMUDGEONLY
Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonlyfellow.
CURMURRING
Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumblingproduced by a slight attack of the gripes. [Scot.] Burns.
CURR
To coo. [Scot.]The owlets hoot, the owlets curr. Wordsworth.
CURRANT
A shrub or bush of several species of the genus Ribes (a genusalso including the gooseberry); esp., the Ribes rubrum. Blackcurrant,a shrub or bush (Ribes nigrum and R. floridum) and its black,strong-flavored, tonic fruit.-- Cherry currant, a variety of the red currant, having a strong,symmetrical bush and a very large berry.-- Currant borer (Zoรถl.), the larva of an insect that bores into thepith and kills currant bushes; specif., the larvae of a smallclearwing moth (รgeria tipuliformis) and a longicorn beetle(Psenocerus supernotatus).-- Currant worm (Zoรถl.), an insect larva which eats the leaves orfruit of the currant. The most injurious are the currant sawfly(Nematus ventricosus), introduced from Europe, and the spanworm(Eufitchia ribearia). The fruit worms are the larva of a fly (EpochraCanadensis), and a spanworm (Eupithecia).-- Flowering currant, Missouri currant, a species of Ribes (R.aureum), having showy yellow flowers.
CURRENTLY
In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currentlybelieved.
CURRIE
See 2d & 3d Curry.
CURRIER
One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned.
CURRISH
Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of acur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, alsomalicious; malignant; brutal.Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf. Shak.Some currish plot, -- some trick. Lockhart.-- Cur"rish*ly, adv.-- Cur"rish*ness, n.
CURRY
A kind of sauce much used in India, containing garlic, pepper,ginger, and other strong spices.
CURRYCOMB
A kind of card or comb having rows of metallic teeth orserrated ridges, used in curryng a horse.
CURSE
To utter imprecations or curses; to affirm or deny withimprecations; to swear.Then began he to curse and to swear. Matt. xxi. 74.His spirits hear me, And yet I need must curse. Shak.
CURSED
Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable.Let us fly this cursed place. Milton.This cursed quarrel be no more renewed. Dryden.
CURSEDLY
In a cursed manner; miserably; in a manner to be detested;enormously. [Low]
CURSER
One who curses.
CURSHIP
The state of being a cur; one who is currish. [Jocose]How durst he, I say, oppose thy curship! Hudibras.
CURSITATING
Moving about slightly. [R.] H. Bushnell.
CURSITOR
An officer in the Court of Chancery, whose business is to makeout original writs.
CURSIVE
Running; flowing. Cursive hand,a running handwriting.
CURSOR
Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slidesbackward and forward upon another part.
CURSORARY
Cursory; hasty. [Obs.]With a cursorary eye o'erglanced the articles. Shak.
CURSORILY
In a running or hasty manner; carelessly.
CURSORINESS
The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as,cursoriness of view.
CURST
imp. & p.p. of Curse.
CURSTFULLY
Peevishly; vexatiously; detestably. [Obs.] "Curstfully mad."Marston.
CURSTNESS
Peevishness; malignity; frowardness; crabbedness; surliness.[Obs.] Shak.
CURT
Characterized by exessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as,curt limits; a curt answer.The curt, yet comprehensive reply. W. Irving.
CURTAIL
To cut off the end or tail, or any part, of; to shorten; toabridge; to diminish; to reduce.I, that am curtailed of this fair proportion. Shak.Our incomes have been curtailed; his salary has been doubled.Macualay.
CURTAIL DOG
A dog with a docked tail; formerly, the dog of a person notqualified to course, which, by the forest laws, must have its tailcut short, partly as a mark, and partly from a notion that the tailis necessary to a dog in running; hence, a dog not fit for sporting.Hope is a curtail dog in some affairs. Shak.
CURTAILER
One who curtails.
CURTAILMENT
The act or result of curtailing or cutting off. Bancroft.
CURTAIN
That part of the rampart and parapet which is between twobastions or two gates. See Illustrations of Ravelin and Bastion.
CURTAL
Curt; brief; laconic.Essays and curtal aphorisms. Milton.Curtal dog. See Curtail dog.
CURTAL FRIAR
A friar who acted as porter at the gate of a monastery. Sir W.Scott.
CURTANA
The pointless sword carried before English monarchs at theircoronation, and emblematically considered as the sword of mercy; --also called the sword of Edward the Confessor.
CURTATE
Shortened or reduced; -- said of the distance of a planet fromthe sun or earth, as measured in the plane of the ecliptic, or thedistance from the sun or earth to that point where a perpendicular,let fall from the planet upon the plane of the ecliptic, meets theecliptic. Curtate cycloid. (Math.) See Cycloid.
CURTATION
The interval by which the curtate distance of a planet is lessthan the true distance.
CURTEIN
Same as Curtana.
CURTES
Courteous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
CURTESY
the life estate which a husband has in the lands of hisdeceased wife, which by the common law takes effect where he has hadissue by her, born alive, and capable of inheriting the lands. Mozley& W.
CURTILAGE
A yard, courtyard, or piece of ground, included within thefence surrounding a dwelling house. Burrill.
CURTLY
In a curt manner.
CURTNESS
The quality of bing curt.
CURTSY
Same as Courtesy, an act of respect.
CURULE
Of or pertaining to a kind of chair appropriated to Romanmagistrates and dignitaries; pertaining to, having, or conferring,the right to sit in the curule chair; hence, official.
CURURO
A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.
CURVATION
The act of bending or crooking.
CURVATIVE
Having the margins only a little curved; -- said of leaves.Henslow.
CURVATURE
The amount of degree of bending of a mathematical curve, or thetendency at any point to depart from a tangent drawn to the curve atthat point. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curvefrom a curcular form. -Absolute curvature. See under Absolute.-- Angle of curvature (Geom.), one that expresses the amount ofcurvature of a curve.-- Chord of curvature. See under Chord.-- Circle of curvature. See Osculating circle of a curve, underCircle.-- Curvature of the spine (Med.), an abnormal curving of the spine,especially in a lateral direction.-- Radius of curvature, the radius of the circle of curvature, orosculatory circle, at any point of a curve.
CURVE
Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curvesurface.
CURVEDNESS
The state of being curved.
CURVET
A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legsat once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raiseshis hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.
CURVICAUDATE
Having a curved or crooked tail.
CURVICOSTATE
Having bent ribs.
CURVIDENTATE
Having curved teeth.
CURVIFORM
Having a curved form.
CURVILINEAD
An instrument for drawing curved lines.
CURVILINEARITY
The state of being curvilinear or of being bounded by curvedlines.
CURVILINEARLY
In a curvilinear manner.
CURVINERVED
Having the ribs or the veins of the leaves curved; -- calledalso curvinervate and curve-veined.
CURVIROSTRAL
Having a crooked beak, as the crossbill.
CURVIROSTRES
A group of passerine birds, including the creepers andnuthatches.
CURVISERIAL
Distributed in a curved line, as leaves along a stem.
CURVITY
The state of being curved; a bending in a regular form;crookedness. Holder.
CURVOGRAPH
An arcograph.
CUSCUS
A soft grass (Pennisetum typhoideum) found in all tropicalregions, used as food for men and cattle in Central Africa.
CUSCUS OIL
Same as Vetiver oil.
CUSHAT
The ringdove or wood pigeon.Scarce with cushat's homely song can vie. Sir W. Scott.
CUSHEWBIRD
The galeated curassow. See Curassow.
CUSHION TIRE
A thick solid-rubber tire, as for a bicycle, with a hollowgroove running lengthwise on the inside.
CUSHIONET
A little cushion.
CUSHIONLESS
Hot furnished with a cushion.Rows of long, cushionless benches, supplying the place of pews.Hawthorne.
CUSHIONY
Like a cushion; soft; pliable.A flat and cushiony noce. Dickens.
CUSHITE
A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah.
CUSK
A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to thecod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- calledalso tusk and torsk.
CUSKIN
A kind of drinking cup. [Obs.]
CUSP
A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or froman inner curve of tracery.
CUSPATED
Ending in a point.
CUSPID
One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one pointor cusp on the crown. See Tooth.
CUSPIDAL
Ending in a point.
CUSPIDATE
To make pointed or sharp.
CUSPIDOR
Any ornamental vessel used as a spittoon; hence, to avoid thecommon term, a spittoon of any sort.
CUSPIS
A point; a sharp end.
CUSSEDNESS
Disposition to willful wrongdoing; malignity; perversity;cantankerousness; obstinacy. [Slang or Colloq., U. S.]
CUSTARD
A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled.Custard apple (Bot.), a low tree or shrub of tropical America,including several species of Anona (A. squamosa, reticulata, etc.),having a roundish or ovate fruit the size of a small orange,containing a soft, yellowish, edible pulp.-- Custard coffin, pastry, or crust, which covers or coffins acustard [Obs.] Shak.
CUSTODE
See Custodian.
CUSTODIAL
Relating to custody or guardianship.
CUSTODIAN
One who has care or custody, as of some public building; akeeper or superintendent.
CUSTODIANSHIP
Office or duty of a custodian.
CUSTODIER
A custodian. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
CUSTOM
Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, andresting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, andPrescription.
CUSTOMABLENESS
Quality of being customable; conformity to custom. [Obs.]
CUSTOMABLY
Usually. [Obs.] Milton.
CUSTOMARILY
In a customary manner; habitually.
CUSTOMARINESS
Quality of being customary.
CUSTOMARY
Holding or held by custom; as, customary tenants; customaryservice or estate.
CUSTOMHOUSE
The building where customs and duties are paid, and wherevessels are entered or cleared. Customhouse broker, an agent who actsfor merchants in the business of entering and clearing goods andvessels.
CUSTOS
A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent. [Obs.] Custosrotulorum (r Etym: [LL., keeper of the rolls] (Eng. Law), theprincipal justice of the peace in a county, who is also keeper of therolls and records of the sessions of the peace.
CUSTREL
An armor-bearer to a knight. [Obs.]
CUSTUMARY
See Customary. [Obs.]
CUTANEOUS
Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin;as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration.
CUTAWAY
Having a part cut off or away; having the corners rounded orcut away. Cutaway coat, a coat whose skirts are cut away in front soas not to meet at the bottom.
CUTCH
See Catechu.
CUTCHERY
A hindoo hall of justice. Malcom.
CUTE
Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning. [Colloq.]
CUTENESS
Acuteness; cunning. [Colloq.]
CUTGRASS
A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minutehooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species ofLeersia.
CUTICLE
The scarfskin or epidermis. See Skin.
CUTICULAR
Pertaining to the cuticle, or external coat of the skin;epidermal.
CUTIN
The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall,makes it waterproof, as in cork.
CUTINIZATION
The conversion of cell walls into a material which repelswater, as in cork.
CUTINIZE
To change into cutin.
CUTIS
See Dermis.
CUTLASS
A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax.Cutlass fish, (Zoรถl.), a peculiar, long, thin, marine fish (Trichiruslepturus) of the southern United States and West Indies; -- calledalso saber fish, silver eel, and, improperly, swordfish.
CUTLER
One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cuttinginstruments.
CUTLET
A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut forbroiling.
CUTLING
The art of making edged tools or cutlery. [Obs.] Milton.
CUTOSE
A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membranecovering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essentialingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid.
CUTPURSE
One who cuts purses for the sake of stealing them or theircontents (an act common when men wore purses fastened by a string totheir girdles); one who steals from the person; a pickpocketTo have an open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is necessary fora cutpurse. Shak.
CUTTHROAT
One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin.
CUTTINGLY
In a cutting manner.
CUTTLE
A knife. [Obs.] Bale.
CUTTLE BONE
The shell or bone of cuttlefishes, used for various purposes,as for making polishing powder, etc.
CUTTOO PLATE
A hood over the end of a wagon wheel hub to keep dirt away fromthe axle.
CUTTY
Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark. [Scot.]
CUTWAL
The chief police officer of a large city. [East Indies]
CUTWATER
A sea bird of the Atlantic (Rhynchops nigra); -- called alsoblack skimmer, scissorsbill, and razorbill. See Skimmer.
CUTWORK
An ancient term for embroidery, esp. applied to the earliestform of lace, or to that early embroidery on linen and the like, fromwhich the manufacture of lace was developed.
CUTWORM
A caterpillar which at night eats off young plants of cabbage,corn, etc., usually at the ground. Some kinds ascend fruit trees andeat off the flower buds. During the day, they conceal themselves inthe earth. The common cutworms are the larvรฆ of various species ofAgrotis and related genera of noctuid moths.
CUVETTE
A cunette. 3. (Spectrometry) (Analytical chemistry)
CYAMELIDE
A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymericmodification of isocyanic acid.
CYAMELLONE
A complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, andknown chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid.
CYANATE
A salt of cyanic acid. Ammonium cyanate (Chem.), a remarkablewhite crystalline substance, NH4.O.CN, which passes, on standing, tothe organic compound, urea, CO.(NH)2.
CYANAURATE
See Aurocyanide.
CYANEAN
Having an azure color. Pennant.
CYANIDE
A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element orradical.
CYANIN
The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyanand anthocyanin.
CYANINE
One of a series of artificial blue or red dyes obtained fromquinoline and lepidine and used in calico printing.
CYANITE
A mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystallineaggregates, of a sky-blue color. It is a silicate of aluminium.[Written also kyanite.]
CYANOGEN
A colorless, inflammable, poisonous gas, C2N2, with a peach-blossom odor, so called from its tendency to form blue compounds;obtained by heating ammonium oxalate, mercuric cyanide, etc. It isobtained in combination, forming an alkaline cyanide when nitrogen ora nitrogenous compound is strongly ignited with carbon and soda orpotash. It conducts itself like a member of the halogen group ofelements, and shows a tendency to form complex compounds. The name isalso applied to the univalent radical, CN (the half molecule ofcyanogen proper), which was one of the first compound radicalsrecognized.
CYANOMETER
An instrument for measuring degress of blueness.
CYANOPATHY
A disease in which the body is colored blue in its surface,arising usually from a malformation of the heart, which causes animperfect arterialization of the blood; blue jaundice.
CYANOPHYLL
A blue coloring matter supposed by some to be one of thecomponent parts ofchlorophyll.
CYANOSED
Rendered blue, as the surface of the body, from cyanosis ordeficient a
CYANOSIS
A condition in which, from insufficient aCyanopathy.
CYANOSITE
Native sulphate of copper. Cf. Blue vitriol, under Blue.
CYANOTIC
Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanoticpatient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanitic skin.
CYANOTYPE
A photographic picture obtained by the use of a cyanide.
CYANURATE
A salt of cyanuric acid.
CYANURET
A cyanide. [Obs.]
CYANURIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.
CYANURIC ACID
an organic acid, C3O3N3H3, first obtained by heating uric acidor urea, and called pyrouric acid; afterwards obtained from isocyanicacid. It is a white crystalline substance, odorless and almosttasteless; -- called also tricarbimide.
CYATHIFORM
In the form of a cup, a little widened at the top.
CYATHOLITH
A kind of coccolith, which in shape resembles a minute cupwidened at the top, and varies in size from
CYATHOPHYLLOID
Like, or pertaining to, the family Cyathophyllidรฆ.
CYCAD
Any plant of the natural order Cycadeceรฆ, as the sago palm,etc.
CYCADACEOUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants like thepalms, but having exogenous wood. The sago palm is an example.
CYCAS
A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palmsand the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes avaluable kind of sago.
CYCLAMEN
A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressedrounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexedas to point upwards, whence it is called rabbit's ears. It is alsocalled sow bread, because hogs are said to eat the corms.
CYCLAMIN
A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extractedfrom the corm of Cyclamen Europรฆum.
CYCLAS
A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the MiddleAges. It was sometimes embroidered or interwoven with gold. Also, arich stuff from which the gown was made.
CYCLE
One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set ofleaves. Gray.
CYCLIDE
A surface of the fourth degree, having certain specialrelations to spherical surfaces. The tore or anchor ring is one ofthe cyclides.
CYCLING
The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle ortricycle.
CYCLIST
A cycler.
CYCLO-
A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel.
CYCLOBRANCHIATE
Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certainlimpets.
CYCLOGANOID
Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei.
CYCLOGANOIDEI
An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales. The bowfin(Amia calva) is a living example.
CYCLOGRAPH
See Arcograph.
CYCLOID
A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when thecircle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the sameplane.
CYCLOIDAL
Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidalspace is the space contained between a cycloid and its base.Cycloidal engine. See Geometric lathe.
CYCLOIDEI
An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for thosewith thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as theherring and salmon. The group is now regarded as artificial.
CYCLOIDIAN
Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid.
CYCLOMETER
A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of abicycle.
CYCLOMETRY
The art of measuring circles.
CYCLONE
A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by highwinds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure. Thiscenter moves onward, often with a velocity of twenty or thirty milesan hour.
CYCLONIC
Pertaining to a cyclone.
CYCLONOSCOPE
An apparatus to assist in locating the center of a cyclone.
CYCLOP
See Note under Cyclops, 1.
CYCLOPEAN
Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge;gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopeanarchitecture.
CYCLOPEDIC
Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; ofthe nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount;as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge.
CYCLOPEDIST
A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia.
CYCLOPIC
Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean.
CYCLOPS
One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, havingbut one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabledto inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, underMt. Etna.
CYCLORAMA
A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that thespectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things innature. The realistic effect is increased by putting, in the spacebetween the spectator and the picture, things adapted to the scenerepresented, and in some places only parts of these objects, thecompletion of them being carried out pictorially.
CYCLOSCOPE
A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, asof a wheel of a steam engine. Knight.
CYCLOSIS
The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within aliving vegetable cell.
CYCLOSTOMATA
Defn:
CYCLOSTOME
A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circularapertures.
CYCLOSTOMI
A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, asthe lamprey; the Marsipobranchii.
CYCLOSTYLAR
Relating to a structure composed of a circular range ofcolumns, without a core or building within. Weale.
CYCLOSTYLE
A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing ordrawing. The writing or drawing is done with a style carrying a smallwheel at the end which makes minute punctures in the paper, thusconverting it into a stencil. Copies are transferred with an inkedroller.
CYDER
See Cider. [Archaic]
CYDONIN
A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds ofthe quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.
CYGNET
A young swan. Shak.
CYGNUS
A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, orfollowing, Lyra; the Swan.
CYLINDRACEOUS
Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.
CYLINDRICALLY
In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical.
CYLINDRICITY
The quality or condition of being cylindrical.
CYLINDRIFORM
Having the form of a cylinder.
CYLINDROID
A certain surface of the third degree, described by a movingstraight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body andalso the forces acting on the body.
CYLINDROMETRIC
Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders.
CYMA
A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which iswavelike in form.
CYMAR
A sight covering; a scarf. See Simar.Her body shaded with a light cymar. Dryden.
CYMATIUM
A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture.
CYMBALIST
A performer upon cymbals.
CYMBIFORM
Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the uppersurface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.
CYMBIUM
A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola.
CYME
A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal ordeterminate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of theopening of the blossoms.
CYMENE
A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, ofpleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol,camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.
CYMENOL
See Carvacrol.
CYMIDINE
A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene.
CYMIFEROUS
Producing cymes.
CYMOGENE
A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure fromthe first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used forproducing low temperatures.
CYMOGRAPH
To trace or copy with a cymograph.
CYMOID
Having the form of a cyme.
CYMOMETER
An instrument for exhibiting and measuring wave motion; specif.(Elec.),
CYMOPHANE
See Chrysoberyl.
CYMOPHANOUS
Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant.
CYMOSCOPE
Any device for detecting the presence of electric waves. Theinfluence of electric waves on the resistance of a particular kind ofelectric circuit, on the magnetization of steel, on the polarizationof an electrolytic cell, or on the electric condition of a vacuum hasbeen applied in the various cymoscopes.
CYMRIC
Welsh.-- n.
CYMRY
A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called bythemselves . [Written also Cymri, Cwmry, Kymry, etc.]
CYMULE
A small cyme, or one of very few flowers.
CYNANCHE
Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended withinflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing.
CYNANTHROPY
A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed intodogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal.
CYNARCTOMACHY
Bear baiting with a dog. Hudibras.
CYNARRHODIUM
A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed ofthe calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes.
CYNEGETICS
The art of hunting with dogs.
CYNICALLY
In a cynical manner.
CYNICALNESS
The quality of being cynical.
CYNICISM
The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; themental state, opnions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose andcontemptuous views and opinions.
CYNOIDEA
A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes.
CYNOREXIA
A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog.
CYNOSURAL
Of or pertaining to a cynosure.
CYON
See Cion, and Scion.
CYPERACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants ofwhich the sedge is the type.
CYPERUS
A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, andincluding the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and theEgyptian papyrus.
CYPHER
See Cipher.
CYPHONAUTES
The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa.
CYPHONISM
A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in thebesmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects.It is still in use among some Oriental nations.
CYPRAEA
A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie.
CYPRES
A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform asnearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.Mozley & W.
CYPRESS
A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus. The species aremostly evergreen, and have wood remarkable for its durability.
CYPRINE
Of or pertaining to the cypress.
CYPRINODONT
One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including thekillifishes or minnows. See Minnow.
CYPRINOID
Like the carp (Cyprinus).-- n.
CYPRIOT
A native or inhabitant of Cyprus.
CYPRIPEDIUM
A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper.
CYPRIS
A genus of small, bivalve, freshwater Crustacea, belonging tothe Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus.
CYPRUS
A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to,crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common,and used for mourning. [Obs.]Lawn as white as driven snow, Cyprus black as e'er was crow. Shak.
CYPRUSLAWN
Same as Cyprus. Milton.
CYPSELA
A one-seeded, one-called, indehiscent fruit; an achene with thecalyx tube adherent.
CYPSELIFORM
Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidรฆ.)
CYRENAIC
Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa,and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophyfounded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene.-- n.
CYRENIAN
Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic.
CYRIOLOGIC
Relating to capital letters.
CYRTOSTYLE
A circular projecting portion.
CYST
One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algรฆ, as of thegreat kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores.D. C. Eaton.
CYSTED
Inclosed in a cyst.
CYSTIC
Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, orcontained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder. Cysticduct, the duct from the gall bladder which unites with the hepatic toform the common bile duct.-- Cystic worm (Zoรถl.), a larval tape worm, as the cysticercus andechinococcus.
CYSTICULE
An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes. Owen.
CYSTID
One of the Cystidea.
CYSTIDEA
An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks.They were usually roundish or egg-shaped, and often unsymmetrical;some were sessile, others had short stems.
CYSTIDEAN
One of the Cystidea.
CYSTINE
A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur,occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, andoccasionally found as a sediment in urine.
CYSTIS
A cyst. See Cyst.
CYSTITIS
Inflammation of the bladder.
CYSTOCARP
A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains thereproductive spores.
CYSTOCELE
Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.
CYSTOIDEA
Same as Cystidea.
CYSTOLITH
A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of aplant.
CYSTOLITHIC
Relating to stone in the bladder.
CYSTOPLAST
A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a redblood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth.
CYSTOSE
Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery.
CYSTOTOME
A knife or instrument used in cystotomy.
CYSTOTOMY
The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation ofcutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.
CYTHEREAN
Pertaining to the goddess Venus.
CYTOBLAST
The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of acellule, through or in which cell development takes place.
CYTOBLASTEMA
See Protoplasm.
CYTOCOCCUS
The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell. Hรฆckel.
CYTODE
A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest formof independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei arepresent.
CYTOGENESIS
Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. SeeGemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.
CYTOGENOUS
Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid,tissue.
CYTOGENY
Cell production or development; cytogenesis.
CYTOID
Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle,etc.
CYTOPLASM
The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from thekaryoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.-- Cy`to*plas"mic (-pl, a.
CYTULA
The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development ofwhich the child or other organism is formed. Hรฆckel.
CZAR
A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia. [Writtenalso tzar.]
CZAREVNA
The title of the wife of the czarowitz.
CZARINA
The title of the empress of Russia.
CZARINIAN
Of or pertaining to the czar or the czarina; czarish.
CZARISH
Of or pertaining to the czar.
CZAROWITZ
The title of the eldest son of the czar of Russia.
CZECHIC
Of or pertaining to the Czechs. "One Czechic realm." TheNation.
CZECHS
The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations,numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemiaand Moravia.
D
The nominal of the second tone in the model major scale (thatin C), or of the fourth tone in the relative minor scale of C (thatin A minor), or of the key tone in the relative minor of F.
D VALVE
A kind of slide valve. See Slide valve, under Slide.
DAB
A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert. [Colloq.]One excels at a plan or the titlepage, another works away at the bodyof the book, and the therd is a dab at an index. Goldsmith.
DABB
A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found inEgypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.
DABBER
That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used byprinters, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plateswith ink.
DABBLE
To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; tomoisten; to wet. "Bright hair dabbled in blood." Shak.
DABBLINGLY
In a dabbling manner.
DABCHICK
A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes,remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick,dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, andpied-billed grebe.
DABOIA
A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).
DABSTER
One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; anadept. [Colloq.]
DACAPO
From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, thefirst strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain sorepeated.
DACE
A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus orLeuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.
DACHSHUND
One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and longbody; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough-haired and the smooth-haired.
DACIAN
Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.-- n.
DACOIT
One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.
DACOITY
The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed bydacoits.
DACOTAHS
Same as Dacotas. Longfellow.
DACTYL
A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followedby two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L.tรซgmรฎnรช, E. mer"ciful; -- so called from the similarity of itsarrangement to that of the joints of a finger. [Written alsodactyle.]
DACTYLAR
Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of aninsect crustacean.
DACTYLET
A dactyl. [Obs.]
DACTYLIC
Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as,dactylic verses.
DACTYLIOGLYPHY
The art or process of gem engraving.
DACTYLIOMANCY
Divination by means of finger rings.
DACTYLIST
A writer of dactylic verse.
DACTYLITIS
An inflammatory affection of the fingers. Gross.
DACTYLOLOGY
The art of communicating ideas by certain movements andpositions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by thedeaf and dumb.
DACTYLOMANCY
Dactylio mancy. [R.] Am. Cyc.
DACTYLONOMY
The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.
DACTYLOPTEROUS
Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially orentirely free, as in the gurnards.
DACTYLOTHECA
The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.
DACTYLOZOOID
A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or evenvermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora.
DAD
Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.I was never so bethumped withwords, Since I first called my brother'sfather dad. Shak.
DADDLE
To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man;hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.
DADDOCK
The rotten body of a tree. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
DADDY
Diminutive of Dad. Dryden.
DADDY LONGLEGS
An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera,having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called alsoharvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.
DADE
To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child whilehe toddles. [Obs.]Little children when they learn to go By painful mothers daded to andfro. Drayton.
DAEDALOUS
Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.
DAFF
To cast aside; to put off; to doff. [Obs.]Canst thou so daff me Thou hast killed my child. Shak.
DAFTNESS
The quality of being daft.
DAG
The unbrunched antler of a young deer.
DAG-TAILED
Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks. "Dag-tailed sheep." Bp. Hall.
DAGGER
A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [|]. It is thesecond in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; --called also obelisk. Dagger moth (Zoรถl.), any moth of the genusApatalea. The larvรฆ are often destructive to the foliage of fruittrees, etc.-- Dagger of lath, the wooden weapon given to the Vice in the oldMoralities. Shak.-- Double dagger, a mark of reference [||] which comes next in orderafter the dagger.-- To look, or speak, daggers, to look or speak fiercely orreproachfully.
DAGGES
An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introducedabout a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans. [Obs.]Halliwell.
DAGGLE
To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; tomoisten.The warrior's very plume, I say, Was daggled by the dashing spray.Sir W. Scott.
DAGGLE-TAIL
A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail.
DAGLOCK
A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.
DAGO
A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension,Portuguese or Italian) descent. [U. S.]
DAGOBA
A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or someBuddhist saint. [East Indies]
DAGON
The national god of the Philistines, represented with the faceand hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish. W. Smith.This day a solemn feast the people hold To Dagon, their sea idol.Milton.They brought it into the house of Dagon. 1 Sam. v. 2.
DAGSWAIN
Acoarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool."Under coverlets made of dagswain." Holinshed.
DAGUERREOTYPE
One who takes daguerreotypes.
DAGUERREOTYPY
The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.
DAHABEAH
A nile boat
DAHLIA
A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of theorder Compositรฆ; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerousvarieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differin color.
DAHLIN
A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called alsoinulin. See Inulin.
DAHOON
An evergreen shrub or small tree (Ilex cassine) of the southernUnited States, bearing red drupes and having soft, white, close-grained wood; -- called also dahoon holly.
DAILINESS
Daily occurence. [R.]
DAILY
Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as,daily labor; a daily bulletin.Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11.Bunyan has told us . . . that in New England his dream was the dailysubject of the conversation of thousands. Macaulay.
DAIMIO
The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.daimyoThe daimios, or territorial nobles, resided in Yedo and were dividedinto four classes. Am. Cyc.
DAINT
Something of exquisite taste; a dainty. [Obs.] -- a.
DAINTIFY
To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious. "Daintifiedemotion." Sat. rev.
DAINTILY
In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously;deliciously; prettily.
DAINTINESS
The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance;delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.The daintiness and niceness of our captains Hakluyt.More notorious for the daintiness of the provision . . . than for themassiveness of the dish. Hakewill.The duke exeeded in the daintiness of his leg and foot, and the earlin the fine shape of his hands, Sir H. Wotton.
DAINTREL
Adelicacy. [Obs.] Halliwell.
DAIRA
Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or hisfamily. The most important are the Da"i*ra Sa"ni*eh, or Sa"ni*yeh,and the Da"i*ra Khas"sa, administered by the khedive's Europeanbondholders, and known collectively as the Daira, or the Dairaestates.
DAIRYING
The business of conducting a dairy.
DAIRYMAID
A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy.
DAIRYMAN
A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.
DAIRYWOMAN
A woman who attends to a dairy.
DAISIED
Full of daisies; adorned with daisies. "The daisied green."Langhorne.The grass all deep and daisied. G. Eliot.
DAK
Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- speltalso dawk, and dauk. [India] Dak boat, a mail boat. Percy Smith.-- Dak bungalow, a traveler's rest-house at the and of a dak stage.-- To travel by dak, to travel by relays of palanquines or othercarriage, as fast as the post along a road.
DAKER HEN
The corncrake or land rail.
DAKOTA GROUP
A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation inWestern North America; -- so named from the region where the stratawere first studied.
DAKOTAS
An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes,mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part,called Sioux. [Written also Dacotahs.]
DAL
Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus. [East Indies]
DAL SEGNO
A direction to go back to the sign Segno.
DALESMAN
One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to theinhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc.Macaulay.
DALF
imp. of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DALLES
A rapid, esp. one where the channel is narrowed between rockwalls. [Northwestern U. S. & Canada]
DALLIER
One Who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words.Asham.
DALLOP
A tuft or clump. [Obs.] Tusser.
DALLY
To delay unnecessarily; to while away.Dallying off the time with often skirmishes. Knolles.
DALMANIA
A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the UpperSilurian and Devonian rocks.
DALMANITES
Same as Dalmania.
DALMATIAN
Of or pertaining to Dalmatia. Dalmatian dog (Zoรถl.), a carriagedog, shaped like a pointer, and having black or bluish spots on awhite ground; the coach dog.
DALTONIAN
One afflicted with color blindness.
DALTONISM
Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red;color blindness. It has various forms and degrees. So called from thechemist Dalton, who had this infirmity. Nichol.
DAM
A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of thehearth of a blast furnace. Dam plate (Blast Furnace), an iron platein front of the dam, to strengthen it.
DAMAGE
The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injurysustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party,for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another.
DAMAGE FEASANT
Doing injury; trespassing, as cattle. Blackstone.
DAMAN
A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The speciesfound in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of NorthernAfrica is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit.See Cony, and Hyrax.
DAMAR
See Dammar.
DAMARA
A native of Damaraland, German Southwest Africa. The Damarasinclude an important and warlike Bantu tribe, and the Hill Damaras,who are Hottentots and mixed breeds hostile to the Bantus.
DAMASCENE
Of or relating to Damascus.
DAMASCUS
A city of Syria. Damascus blade, a sword or scimiter, madechiefly at Damascus, having a variegated appearance of watering, andproverbial for excellence.-- Damascus iron, or Damascus twist, metal formed of thin bars orwires of iron and steel elaborately twisted and welded together; usedfor making gun barrels, etc., of high quality, in which the surface,when polished and acted upon by acid, has a damasc appearance.-- Damascus steel. See Damask steel, under Damask, a.
DAMASCUS STEEL
See Damask steel, under Damask.
DAMASK
To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed toDamascus; particularly: (a) with flowers and rich designs, as silk;(b) with inlaid lines of gold, etc., or with a peculiar marking or"water," as metal. See Damaskeen.Mingled metal damasked o'er with gold. DrydeOn the soft, downy bank, damasked with flowers. Milton.
DAMASKIN
A sword of Damask steel.No old Toledo blades or damaskins. Howell
DAMASSE
Woven like damask.-- n.
DAMASSIN
A kind of modified damask or blocade.
DAMBONITE
A white crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an Africancaotchouc.
DAMBOSE
A crystalline vari ety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite.
DAMEWORT
A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for itsfragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called alsorocket and dame's violet. Loudon.
DAMIANA
A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.
DAMIANIST
A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6thcentury, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the HolyTrinity.
DAMMARA
A large tree of the order Coniferรฆ, indigenous to the EastIndies and Australasia; -- called also Agathis. There are severalspecies.
DAMN
To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign toperdition; to curse.
DAMNABILITY
The quality of being damnable; damnableness. Sir T. More.
DAMNABLENESS
The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness.The damnableness of this most execrable impiety. Prynne.
DAMNATION
Condemnation to everlasting punishment in the future state, orthe punishment itself.How can ye escape the damnation of hell Matt. xxiii. 33.Wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. Shak.
DAMNATORY
Doo "Damnatory invectives." Hallam.
DAMNIFIC
Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious.
DAMNIFICATION
That which causes damage or loss.
DAMNIFY
To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to imparir. [R.]This work will ask as many more officials to make expurgations andexpunctions, that the commonwealth of learning be not damnified.Milton.
DAMNING
That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.
DAMNINGNESS
Tendency to bring damnation. "The damningness of them [sins]."Hammond.
DAMNUM
Harm; detriment, either to character or property.
DAMOURITE
A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water.
DAMP
A gaseous prodact, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc.Choke damp, a damp consisting principally of carboniCarbonic acid,under Carbonic.-- Damp sheet, a curtain in a mine gallery to direct air currentsand prevent accumulation of gas.-- Fire damp, a damp consisting chiefly of light carburetedhydrogen; -- so called from its tendence to explode when mixed withatmospheric air and brought into contact with flame.
DAMP OFF
To decay and perish through excessive moisture.
DAMPEN
To become damp; to deaden. Byron.
DAMPER
That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate inthe flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check orregulate the draught of air. (b) A contrivance, as in a pianoforte,to deaden vibrations; or, as in other pieces of mechanism, to checksome action at a particular time.Nor did Sabrina's presence seem to act as any damper at the modestlittle festivities. W. Black.
DAMPISH
Moderately damp or moist.-- Damp"ish*ly, adv.-- Damp"ish*ness, n.
DAMPNE
To damn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DAMPNESS
Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.
DAMSEL
An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hoppe
DAMSON
A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety ofthe Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum.
DAN
A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir. [Obs.]Old Dan Geoffry, in gently spright The pure wellhead of poetry diddwell. Spenser.What time Dan Abraham left the Chaldee land. Thomson.
DANAIDE
A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outertapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually toboth shells, but sometimes only to one.
DANAITE
A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite.
DANALITE
A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of areddish color. It is a silicate of iron, zinc manganese, andglicinum, containing sulphur.
DANBURITE
A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn. It isnear the topaz in form. Dana.
DANCE
To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up anddown; to dandle.To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind. Shak.Thy grandsire loved thee well; Many a time he danced thee on hisknee. Shak.To dance attendance, to come and go obsequiously; to be or remain inwaiting, at the beck and call of another, with a view to please orgain favor.A man of his place, and so near our favor, To dance attendance ontheir lordships' pleasure. Shak.
DANCER
One who dances or who practices dancing. The merry dancers,beams of the northern lights when they rise and fall alternatelywithout any considerable change of length. See Aurora borealis, underAurora.
DANCERESS
A female dancer. [Obs.] Wyclif.
DANCETTE
Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancettรฉ hasonly three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon.
DANCING
from Dance. Dancing girl, one of the women in the East Indieswhose profession is to dance in the temples, or for the amusement ofspectators. There are various classes of dancing girls.-- Dancing master, a teacher of dancing.-- Dancing school, a school or place where dancing is taught.
DANCY
Same as Dancettรฉ.
DANDELION
A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale,formerly called T. Dens-leonis and Leontodos Taraxacum) bearinglarge, yellow, compound flowers, and deeply notched leaves.
DANDER
To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently. [Prov. Eng.]Halliwell.
DANDI
A boatman; an oarsman. [India]
DANDIE
One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also DandieDinmont.
DANDIFIED
Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy;buckish.
DANDIFY
To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.
DANDLER
One who dandles or fondles.
DANDRIFF
See Dandruff. Swift.
DANDRUFF
A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small orparticles. [Written also dandriff.]
DANDY
A bantam fowl.
DANDYISH
Like a dandy.
DANDYISM
The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness. Byron.
DANDYLING
A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.
DANE
A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark. Great Dane.(Zoรถl.) See Danish dog, under Danish.
DANEWORT
A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarfelder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, andDane's-blood.
DANG
imp. of Ding. [Obs.]
DANGER
To endanger. [Obs.] Shak.
DANGERFUL
Full of danger; dangerous. [Obs.] -- Dan"ger*ful*ly, adv.[Obs.] Udall.
DANGERLESS
Free from danger. [R.]
DANGLE
To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion.he'd rather on a gibbet dangle Than miss his dear delight, towrangle. Hudibras.From her lifted hand Dangled a length of ribbon. Tennyson.To dangle about or after, to hang upon importunately; to court thefavor of; to beset.The Presbyterians, and other fanatics that dangle after them, arewell inclined to pull down the present establishment. Swift.
DANGLEBERRY
A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub(Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry. Thebush is also called blue tangle, and is found from New England toKentucky, and southward.
DANGLER
One who dangles about or after others, especially after women;a trifler. " Danglers at toilets." Burke.
DANIEL
A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness ofjudgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge.A Daniel come to judgment. Shak.
DANISH
Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country.-- n.
DANITE
One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath toobey the heads of the church in all things. [U. S.]
DANK
Damp; moist; humid; wet.Now that the fields are dank and ways are mire. Milton.Cheerless watches on the cold, dank ground. Trench.
DANKISH
Somewhat dank.-- Dank"ish*ness, n.In a dark and dankish vault at home. Shak.
DANNEBROG
The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures ofcross and crown. Order of Dannebrog, an ancient Danish order ofknighthood.
DANSEUSE
a professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a publicexhibition as in a ballet.
DANSK
Danish. [Obs.]
DANSKER
A Dane. [Obs.]Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris. Shak.
DANTEAN
Relatingto, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or hiswritings.
DANTESQUE
Dantelike; Dantean. Earle.
DANUBIAN
Pertainingto, or bordering on, the river Danube.
DAP
To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water.To catch a club by dapping with a grasshoper. Walton.
DAPATICAL
Sumptuous in cheer. [Obs.] Bailey.
DAPHNE
A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and withfragrant blossoms.
DAPHNETIN
A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted fromdaphnin.
DAPHNIA
A genus of the genus Daphnia.
DAPHNOMANCY
Divination by means of the laurel.
DAPIFER
One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, theofficial title of the grand master or steward of the king's or anobleman's household.
DAPPER
Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress orappearance; lively.He wondered how so many provinces could be held in subjection by sucha dapper little man. Milton.The dapper ditties that I wont devise. Spenser.Sharp-nosed, dapper steam yachts. Julian Hawthorne.
DAPPERLING
A dwarf; a dandiprat. [r.]
DAPPLE
One of the spots on a dappled animal.He has . . . as many eyes on his body as my gray mare hath dapples.Sir P. Sidney.
DARBIES
Manacles; handcuffs. [Cant]Jem Clink will fetch you the darbies. Sir W. Scott.
DARBY
A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothingceilings, etc.
DARBYITE
One of the Plymouth Brethren, or of a sect among them; -- socalled from John N. Darby, one of the leaders of the Brethren.
DARDANIAN
Trojan.
DARE
To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to bebold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture.I dare do all that may become a man; Who dares do more is none. Shak.Why then did not the ministers use their new law Bacause they durstnot, because they could not. Macaulay.Who dared to sully her sweet love with suspicion. Thackeray.The tie of party was stronger than the tie of blood, because apartisan was more ready to dare without asking why. Jowett (Thu
DARE-DEVIL
A reckless fellow. Also used adjectively; as, dare-devilexcitement.A humorous dare-devil -- the very man To suit my prpose. Ld. Lytton.
DARE-DEVILTRY
Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil.
DAREFUL
Full af daring or of defiance; adveturous. [R.] Shak.
DARER
One who dares or defies.
DARING
Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act.
DARK
A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or thelike; as, the light and darks are well contrasted.The lights may serve for a repose to the darks, and the darks to thelights. Dryden.
DARKEN
To grow or darker.
DARKENER
One who, or that which, darkens.
DARKENING
Twilight; gloaming. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Wright.
DARKFUL
Full of darkness. [Obs.]
DARKISH
Somewhat dark; dusky.
DARKLE
To grow dark; to show indistinctly. Thackeray.
DARKLING
In the dark. [Poetic]So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling. Shak.As the wakeful bird Sings darkling. Milton.
DARKSOME
Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless. [Poetic]He brought him through a darksome narrow pass To a broad gate, allbuilt of beaten gold. Spenser.
DARKY
A negro. [Sleng]
DARLING
One dearly beloved; a favorite.And can do naught but wail her darling's loss. Shak.
DARLINGTONIA
A genus of California pitcher plants consisting of a singlespecies. The long tubular leaves are hooded at the top, andfrequently contain many insects drowned in the secretion of theleaves.
DARN
To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn orthread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread.He spent every day ten hours in his closet, in darning his stockins.Swift.Darning last. See under Last.-- Darning needle. (a) A long, strong needle for mending holes orrents, especially in stockings. (b) (Zoรถl.) Any species of dragonfly, having a long, cylindrical body, resembling a needle. Theseflies are harmless and without stings.
DARNEL
Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum(bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous.Other species, as Lolium perenne (rye grass or ray grass), and itsvariety L. Italicum (Italian rye grass), are highly esteemed forpasture and for making hay.
DARNER
One who mends by darning.
DAROO
The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore.
DARR
The European black tern.
DARREIN
Last; as, darrein continuance, the last continuance.
DART
A fish; the dace. See Dace. Dart sac (Zoรถl.), a sac connectedwith the reproductive organs of land snails, which contains a dart,or arrowlike structure.
DARTARS
A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs.
DARTER
The snakebird, a water bird of the genus Plotus; -- so calledbecause it darts out its long, snakelike neck at its prey. SeeSnakebird.
DARTINGLY
Like a dart; rapidly.
DARTLE
To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: --frequentative of dart.My star that dartles the red and the blue. R. Browning.
DARTOIC
Of or pertaining to the dartos.
DARTOID
Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue.
DARTOS
A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneaththe skin of the scrotum.
DARTROUS
Relating to, or partaking of the nature of, the disease calledtetter; herpetic. Dartroud diathesis, A morbid condition of thesystem predisposing to the development of certain skin deseases, suchas eczema, psoriasis, and pityriasis. Also called rheumic diathesis,and hipretism. Piffard.
DARWINIAN
Pertaining to Darwin; as, the Darwinian theory, a theory of themanner and cause of the supposed development of living things fromcertain original forms or elements.
DARWINIANISM
Darwinism.
DARWINISM
The theory or doctrines put forth by Darwin. See above. Huxley.
DASE
See Daze. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DASEWE
To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled. [Obs.]Chauscer.
DASH
To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strikeviolently; as, the waves dash upon rocks.[He] dashed through thick and thin. Dryden.On each hand the gushing waters play, And down the rough cascade alldashing fall. Thomson.
DASHEEN
A tropical aroid (of the genus Caladium, syn. Colocasia) havingan edible farinaceous root. It is related to the taro and to thetanier, but is much superior to it in quality and is as easily cookedas the potato. It is a staple food plant of the tropics, beingprepared like potatoes, and has been introduced into the SouthernUnited States.
DASHING
Bold; spirited; showy.The dashing and daring spirit is preferable to the listless. T.Campbell.
DASHINGLY
Conspicuously; showily. [Colloq.]A dashingly dressed gentleman. Hawthorne.
DASHISM
The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade orshow. [R. & Colloq.]He must fight a duel before his claim to . . . dashism can beuniversally allowed. V. Knox.
DASHPOT
A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as inthe valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock.
DASHY
Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable;showy. [Colloq.]
DASTARD
One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; apoltroon.You are all recreants and dashtards, and delight to live in slaveryto the nobility. Shak.
DASTARDIZE
To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardizemy courage. Dryden.
DASTARDLINESS
The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear.
DASTARDLY
Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage.
DASTARDNESS
Dastardliness.
DASTARDY
Base timidity; cowardliness.
DASWE
See Dasewe [Obs.] Chaucer.
DASYMETER
An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of athin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then inan atmosphere of known density.
DASYPAEDAL
Dasypรฆdic.
DASYPAEDES
Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched.
DASYPAEDIC
Pertaining to the Dasypรฆdes; ptilopรฆdic.
DASYURE
A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging tothe genus Dasyurus. There are several species.
DASYURINE
Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures.
DATA
See Datum.
DATABLE
That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date."Datable almost to a year." The Century.
DATARIA
Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate officefrom which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo,such as appointments to benefices. The name is derived from the worddatum, given or dated (with the indications of the time and place ofgranting the gift or favor).
DATARY
An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria.
DATE
The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself.
DATE LINE
The hypothetical line on the surface of the earth fixed byinternational or general agreement as a boundary on one side of whichthe same day shall have a different name and date in the calendarfrom its name and date on the other side.
DATELESS
Without date; having no fixed time.
DATER
One who dates.
DATISCIN
A white crystalline glucoside extracted from the bastard hemp(Datisca cannabina).
DATIVE
Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object,and is generally indicated in English by to or for with theobjective.
DATIVELY
As a gift. [R.]
DATOLITE
A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenishcrystals. [Written also datholite.]
DATUM
The quantities or relations which are assumed to be given inany problem. Datum line (Surv.), the horizontal or base line, fromwhich the heights of points are reckoned or measured, as in the planof a railway, etc.
DATURA
A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowersand a four-celled, capsular fruit.
DATURINE
Atropine; -- called also daturia and daturina.
DAUB
To smear; to play the flatterer.His conscience . . . will not daub nor flatter. South.
DAUBER
A pad or ball of rags, covered over with canvas, for inkingplates; a dabber.
DAUBREELITE
A sulphide of chromium observed in some meteoric irons.
DAUBY
Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive. "Dauby wax."
DAUGHTER-IN-LAW
The wife of one's son.
DAUGHTERLINESS
The state of a daughter, or the conduct becoming a daughter.
DAUGHTERLY
Becoming a daughter; filial.Sir Thomas liked her natural and dear daughterly affection towardshim. Cavendish.
DAUK
See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush.
DAUN
A variant of Dan, a title of honor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DAUNTER
One who daunts.
DAUNTLESS
Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless;intrepid.Dauntless he rose, and to the fight returned. Dryden.-- Daunt"less*ly, adv.-- Daunt"less*ness, n.
DAUPHIN
The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir tothe crown. Since the revolution of 1830, the title has beendiscontinued.
DAUW
The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa(Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi.
DAVENPORT
A kind of small writing table, generally somewhat ornamental,and forming a piece of furniture for the parlor or boudoir.A much battered davenport in one of the windows, at which sat a ladywriting. A. B. Edwards.
DAVIDIC
Of or pertaining to David, the king and psalmist of Israel, orto his family.
DAVIT
Curved arms of timber or iron, projecting over a ship's side ofstern, having tackle to raise or lower a boat, swing it in on deck,rig it out for lowering, etc.; -- called also boat davits. Totten.
DAVY JONES
The spirit of the sea; sea devil; -- a term used by sailors.This same Davy Jones, according to the mythology of sailors, is thefiend that presides over all the evil spirits of the deep, and isseen in various shapes warning the devoted wretch of death and woe.Smollett.Davy Jones's Locker, the ocean, or bottom of the ocean.-- Gone to Davy Jones's Locker, dead, and buried in the sea; thrownoverboard.
DAVY LAMP
See Safety lamp, under Lamp.
DAVYNE
A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.
DAVYUM
A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a whitemalleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154.
DAW
A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), oftennesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw.The loud daw, his throat displaying, draw The whole assembly of hisfellow daws. Waller.
DAWDLE
To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter.Come some evening and dawdle over a dish of tea with me. Johnson.We . . . dawdle up and down Pall Mall. Thackeray.
DAWDLER
One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; atrifler.
DAWE
Day. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DAWISH
Like a daw.
DAWK
See Dak.
DAWSONITE
A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white,bladed crustals.
DAY-COAL
The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface.
DAY-LABOR
Labor hired or performed by the day. Milton.
DAY-LABORER
One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer,or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade. Goldsmith.
DAY-NET
A net for catching small birds.
DAY-PEEP
The dawn. [Poetic] Milton.
DAYAKS
See Dyaks.
DAYBOOK
A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which arerecorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in theirorder, and from which they are transferred to the journal.
DAYBREAK
The time of the first appearance of light in the morning.
DAYDREAM
A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air;unfounded hope.Mrs. Lambert's little daydream was over. Thackeray.
DAYDREAMER
One given to draydreams.
DAYFLOWER
A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs(Commelina), having ephemeral flowers.
DAYFLY
A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera,of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; theephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day inthe winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.
DAYLIGHT
The eyes. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
DAYMAID
A dairymaid. [Obs.]
DAYMARE
A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended bythe peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare.Dunglison.
DAYSMAN
An umpire or arbiter; a mediator.Neither is there any daysman betwixt us. Job ix. 33.
DAYSPRING
The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; thedawn; hence, the beginning. Milton.The tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hathvisited us. Luke i. 78.
DAYTIME
The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished fromthe night.
DAYWOMAN
A dairymaid. [Obs.]
DAZE
To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, orwith fear; to confuse; to benumb.While flashing beams do daze his feeble eyen. Spenser.Such souls, Whose sudden visitations daze the world. Sir H. Taylor.He comes out of the room in a dazed state, that is an odd though asufficient substitute for interest. Dickens.
DAZZLE
A light of dazzling brilliancy.
DAZZLEMENT
Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light. Donne.
DAZZLINGLY
In a dazzling manner.
DE BENE ESSE
Of well being; of formal sufficiency for the time;conditionally; provisionally. Abbott.
DE FACTO
Actually; in fact; in reality; as, a king de facto, --distinguished from a king de jure, or by right.
DE JURE
By right; of right; by law; -- often opposed to be facto.
DE RIGUEUR
According to strictness (of etiquette, rule, or the like);obligatory; strictly required.
DE-
A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline,decease, deduct, decamp. In words from the French it is equivalent toLatin dis- apart, away; or sometimes to de. Cf. Dis-. It is negativeand opposite in derange, deform, destroy, etc. It is intensive indeprave, despoil, declare, desolate, etc.
DEACON
An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certainsubordinate duties varying in different communions. In the RomanCatholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowestorder in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. InPresbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders,and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion serviceand the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he issubordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterianchurch.
DEACONESS
A female deacon; as:(a) (Primitive Ch.) One of an order of women whose duties resembledthose of deacons. (b) (Ch. of Eng. and Prot. Epis. Ch.)
DEACONHOOD
The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship.
DEACONRY
See Deaconship.
DEACONSHIP
The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.
DEAD
Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power ofenjoying the rights of property; as, one banished or becoming a monkis civilly dead.
DEAD BEAT
See Beat, n., 7. [Low, U.S.]
DEAD-EYE
A round, flattish, wooden block, encircled by a rope, or aniron band, and pierced with three holes to receive the lanyard; --used to extend the shrouds and stays, and for other purposes. Calledalso deadman's eye. Totten.
DEAD-PAY
Pay drawn for soldiers, or others, really dead, whose names arekept on the rolls.O you commanders, That, like me, have no dead-pays. Massinger.
DEAD-RECKONING
See under Dead, a.
DEAD-STROKE
Making a stroke without recoil; deadbeat. Dead-stroke hammer(Mach.), a power hammer having a spring interposed between thedriving mechanism and the hammer head, or helve, to lessen the recoilof the hammer and reduce the shock upon the mechanism.
DEADBEAT
Making a beat without recoil; giving indications by a singlebeat or excursion; -- said of galvanometers and other instruments inwhich the needle or index moves to the extent of its deflection andstops with little or no further oscillation. Deadbeat escapement. Seeunder Escapement.
DEADBORN
Stillborn. Pope.
DEADENER
One who, or that which, deadens or checks.
DEADHEAD
A buoy. See under Dead, a.
DEADHOUSE
A morgue; a place for the temporary reception and exposure ofdead bodies.
DEADISH
Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike.The lips put on a deadish paleness. A. Stafford.
DEADLATCH
A kind of latch whose bolt may be so locked by a detent that itcan not be opened from the inside by the handle, or from the outsideby the latch key. Knight.
DEADLIGHT
A strong shutter, made to fit open ports and keep out water ina storm.
DEADLIHOOD
State of the dead. [Obs.]
DEADLINESS
The quality of being deadly.
DEADNESS
The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity,etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness;indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; thedeadness of an eye; deadness of the affections; the deadness of beeror cider; deadness to the world, and the like.
DEADS
The substances which inclose the ore on every side.
DEADWOOD
A mass of timbers built into the bow and stern of a vessel togive solidity.
DEADWORKS
The parts of a ship above the water when she is laden.
DEAF
To deafen. [Obs.] Dryden.
DEAF-MUTE
A person who is deaf and dumb; one who, through deprivation ordefect of hearing, has either failed the acquire the power of speech,or has lost it. [See Illust. of Dactylology.]Deaf-mutes are still so called, even when, by artificial methods,they have been taught to speak imperfectly.
DEAF-MUTISM
The condition of being a deaf-mute.
DEAFEN
To render impervious to sound, as a partition or floor, byfilling the space within with mortar, by lining with paper, etc.
DEAFENING
The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a flooror wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in thisprocess; pugging.
DEAFLY
Without sense of sounds; obscurely.
DEAL
The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board orplank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seveninches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower thanthis, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end.
DEALBATE
To whiten. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DEALBATION
Act of bleaching; a whitening. [Obs.]
DEALFISH
A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus).
DEALING
The act of one who deals; distribution of anything, as of cardsto the players; method of business; traffic; intercourse;transaction; as, to have dealings with a person. Double dealing,insincere, treacherous dealing; duplicity.-- Plain dealing, fair, sincere, honorable dealing; honest,outspoken expression of opinion.
DEALTH
Share dealt. [Obs.]
DEAMBULATE
To walk abroad. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DEAMBULATION
A walking abroad; a promenading. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
DEAMBULATORY
Going about from place to place; wandering; of or pertaining toa deambulatory. [Obs.] "Deambulatory actors." Bp. Morton.
DEANSHIP
The office of a dean.I dont't value your deanship a straw. Swift.
DEAR
A dear one; lover; sweetheart.That kiss I carried from thee, dear. Shak.
DEAR-BOUGHT
Bought at a high price; as, dear-bought experience.
DEAR-LOVED
Greatly beloved. Shak.
DEARBORN
A four-wheeled carriage, with curtained sides.
DEARE
variant of Dere, v. t. & n. [Obs.]
DEARIE
Same as Deary. Dickens.
DEARLING
A darling. [Obs.] Spenser.
DEARN
Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful. [Obs.] Shak.-- Dearn"ly, adv. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEARTH
Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack offood on account of failure of crops; famine.There came a dearth over all the land of Egypt. Acts vii. 11.He with her press'd, she faint with dearth. Shak.Dearth of plot, and narrowness of imagination. Dryden.
DEARTICULATE
To disjoint.
DEARWORTH
Precious. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
DEARY
A dear; a darling. [Familiar]
DEAS
See Dais. [Scot.]
DEATH
Loss of spiritual life.To be death. Rom. viii. 6.
DEATHBED
The bed in which a person dies; hence, the closing hours oflife of one who dies by sickness or the like; the last sickness.That often-quoted passage from Lord Hervey in which the Queen'sdeathbed is described. Thackeray.
DEATHBIRD
Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- socalled from a superstition of the North American Indians that itsnote presages death.
DEATHBLOW
A mortal or crushing blow; a stroke or event which kills ordestroys.The deathblow of my hope. Byron.
DEATHFULNESS
Appearance of death. Jer. Taylor.
DEATHLESS
Not subject to death, destruction, or extinction; immortal;undying; imperishable; as, deathless beings; deathless fame.
DEATHLINESS
The quality of being deathly; deadliness. Southey.
DEATHLY
Deadly; fatal; mortal; destructive.
DEATHSMAN
An executioner; a headsman or hangman. [Obs.] Shak.
DEATHWARD
Toward death.
DEAURATE
Gilded. [Obs.]
DEAURATION
Act of gilding. [Obs.]
DEAVE
To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen. [Scot.]
DEBACCHATE
To rave as a bacchanal. [R.] Cockeram.
DEBACCHATION
Wild raving or debauchery. [R.] Prynne.
DEBACLE
A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waterswhich breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and dispersesblocks of stone and other dรฉbris.
DEBAR
To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; topreclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut outor exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of.Yet not so strictly hath our Lord imposed Labor, as to debar us whenwe need Refreshment. Milton.Their wages were so low as to debar them, not only from the comfortsbut from the common decencies of civilized life. Buckle.
DEBARB
To deprive of the beard. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEBARK
To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.
DEBARKATION
Disembarkation.The debarkation, therefore, had to take place by small steamers. U.S. Grant.
DEBARMENT
Hindrance from approach; exclusion.
DEBARRASS
To disembarrass; to relieve. [R.]
DEBASE
To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth,dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate;to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind byfrivolity; to debase style by vulgar words.The coin which was adulterated and debased. Hale.It is a kind of taking God's name in vain to debase religion withsuch frivolous disputes. Hooker.And to debase the sons, exalts the sires. Pope.
DEBASED
Turned upside down from its proper position; inverted;reversed.
DEBASEMENT
The act of debasing or the state of being debased. Milton.
DEBASER
One who, or that which, debases.
DEBASINGLY
In a manner to debase.
DEBATABLE
Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy orcontention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question.The Debatable Land or Ground, a tract of land between the Esk and theSark, claimed by both England and Scotland; the Batable Ground.
DEBATEFUL
Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Spenser.
DEBATEFULLY
With contention. [Obs.]
DEBATEMENT
Controversy; deliberation; debate. [R.]A serious question and debatement with myself. Milton.
DEBATER
One who debates; one given to argument; a disputant; acontrovertist.Debate where leisure serves with dull debaters. Shak.
DEBATING
The act of discussing or arguing; discussion. Debating societyor club, a society or club for the purpose of debate and improvementin extemporaneous speaking.
DEBATINGLY
In the manner of a debate.
DEBAUCH
To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in characteror principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, todebauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch anarmy.Learning not debauched by ambition. Burke.A man must have got his conscience thoroughly debauched and hardenedbefore he can arrive to the height of sin. South.Her pride debauched her judgment and her eyes. Cowley.
DEBAUCHED
Dissolute; dissipated. "A coarse and debauched look." Ld.Lytton.
DEBAUCHEDLY
In a profligate manner.
DEBAUCHEDNESS
The state of being debauched; intemperance. Bp. Hall.
DEBAUCHEE
One who is given to intemperance or bacchanalian excesses; aman habitually lewd; a libertine.
DEBAUCHER
One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer tolewdness.
DEBAUCHMENT
The act of corrupting; the act of seducing from virtue or duty.
DEBAUCHNESS
Debauchedness. [Obs.]
DEBEIGE
A kind of woolen or mixed dress goods. [Written also debage.]
DEBEL
To conquer. [Obs.] Milton.
DEBELLATE
To subdue; to conquer in war. [Obs.] Speed.
DEBELLATION
The act of conquering or subduing. [Obs.]
DEBENTURE STOCK
The debt or series of debts, collectively, represented by aseries of debentures; a debt secured by a trust deed of property forthe benefit of the holders of shares in the debt or of a series ofdebentures. By the terms of much debenture stock the holders are notentitled to demand payment until the winding up of the company ordefault in payment; in the winding up of the company or default inpayment; in the case of railway debentures, they cannot demandpayment of the principal, and the debtor company cannot redeem thestock, except by authority of an act of Parliament. [Eng.]
DEBENTURED
Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.
DEBILE
Weak. [Obs.] Shak.
DEBILITANT
Diminishing the energy of organs; reducing excitement; as, adebilitant drug.
DEBILITATE
To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, todebilitate the body by intemperance.Various ails debilitate the mind. Jenyns.The debilitated frame of Mr. Bertram was exhausted by this lasteffort. Sir W. Scott.
DEBILITATION
The act or process of debilitating, or the condition of one whois debilitated; weakness.
DEBILITY
The state of being weak; weakness; feebleness; languor.The inconveniences of too strong a perspiration, which are debility,faintness, and sometimes sudden death. Arbuthnot.
DEBIT
A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; --mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account.
DEBITOR
A debtor. [Obs.] Shak.
DEBITUMINIZATION
The act of depriving of bitumen.
DEBITUMINIZE
To deprive of bitumen.
DEBLAI
The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai),is taken.
DEBONAIR
Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; ofgood appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant.Was never prince so meek and debonair. Spenser.
DEBONAIRITY
Debonairness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEBONAIRLY
Courteously; elegantly.
DEBONAIRNESS
The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness;courtesy. Sterne.
DEBOSH
To debauch. [Obs.] "A deboshed lady." Beau. & Fl.
DEBOSHMENT
Debauchment. [Obs.]
DEBOUCH
To march out from a wood, defile, or other confined spot, intoopen ground; to issue.Battalions debouching on the plain. Prescott.
DEBOUCHE
A place for exit; an outlet; hence, a market for goods.The dรฉbouchรฉs were ordered widened to afford easy egress. TheCentury.
DEBOUCHURE
The outward opening of a river, of a valley, or of a strait.
DEBRIS
Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially,fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base.
DEBRUISED
Surmounted by an ordinary; as, a lion is debruised when a bendor other ordinary is placed over it, as in the cut.The lion of England and the lilies of France without the batonsinister, under which, according to the laws of heraldry, they wheredebruised in token of his illegitimate birth. Macaulay.
DEBT
An action at law to recover a certain specified sum of moneyalleged to be due. Burrill. Bond debt, Book debt, etc. See underBond, Book, etc.-- Debt of nature, death.
DEBTED
Indebted; obliged to. [R.]I stand debted to this gentleman. Shak.
DEBTEE
One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor.Blackstone.
DEBTLESS
Free from debt. Chaucer.
DEBTOR
One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative tocreditor.[I 'll] bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully restdebtor for the first. Shak.In Athens an insolvent debtor became slave to his creditor. Mitford.Debtors for our lives to you. Tennyson.
DEBULLIATE
To boil over. [Obs.]
DEBULLITION
A bubbling or boiling over. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEBURSE
To disburse. [Obs.] Ludlow.
DEBUSCOPE
A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect imagesso as to form beautiful designs.
DEBUT
A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance beforethe public, as of an actor or public speaker.
DECA-
A prefix, from Gr. de`ka, signifying ten; specifically (MetricSystem), a prefix signifying the weight or measure that is ten timesthe principal unit.
DECACERATA
The division of Cephalopoda which includes the squids,cuttlefishes, and others having ten arms or tentacles; -- called alsoDecapoda. [Written also Decacera.] See Dibranchiata.
DECACUMINATED
Having the point or top cut off. [Obs.] Bailey.
DECAD
A decade.Averill was a decad and a half his elder. Tennyson.
DECADAL
Pertaining to ten; consisting of tens.
DECADE
A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; adecennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; thesecond decade of Livy. [Written also decad.]During this notable decade of years. Gladstone.
DECADENT
Decaying; deteriorating.
DECADIST
A writer of a book divided into decades; as, Livy was adecadist. [R.]
DECAGON
A plane figure having ten sides and ten angles; any figurehaving ten angles. A regular decagon is one that has all its sidesand angles equal.
DECAGONAL
Pertaining to a decagon; having ten sides.
DECAGYNIA
A Linnรฆan order of plants characterized by having ten styles.
DECAHEDRAL
Having ten sides.
DECAHEDRON
A solid figure or body inclosed by ten plane surfaces. [Writtenalso, less correctly, decaedron.]
DECALCIFICATION
The removal of calcareous matter.
DECALCIFY
To deprive of calcareous matter; thus, to decalcify bones is toremove the stony part, and leave only the gelatin.
DECALOG
Decalogue.
DECALOGIST
One who explains the decalogue. J. Gregory.
DECALOGUE
The Ten Commandments or precepts given by God to Moses on MountSinai, and originally written on two tables of stone.
DECAMERON
A celebrated collection of tales, supposed to be related in tendays; -- written in the 14th century, by Boccaccio, an Italian.
DECAMPMENT
Departure from a camp; a marching off.
DECANAL
Pertaining to a dean or deanery.His rectorial as well as decanal residence. Churton.Decanal side, the side of the choir on which the dean's tall isplaced.-- Decanal stall, the stall allotted to the dean in the choir, onthe right or south side of the chancel. Shipley.
DECANDRIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants characterized by having ten stamens.
DECANE
A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, includingseveral isomeric modifications.
DECANGULAR
Having ten angles.
DECANI
Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall isplaced; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, ordecani, side.
DECANT
To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb thesediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decantwine.
DECANTATE
To decant. [Obs.]
DECANTATION
The act of pouring off a clear liquor gently from its lees orsediment, or from one vessel into another.
DECAPHYLLOUS
Having ten leaves.
DECAPITATION
The act of beheading; beheading.
DECAPOD
A crustacean with ten feet or legs, as a crab; one of theDecapoda. Also used adjectively.
DECAPODA
The order of Crustacea which includes the shrimps, lobsters,crabs, etc.
DECARBONATE
To deprive of carbonic acid.
DECARBONIZATION
The action or process of depriving a substance of carbon.
DECARBONIZE
To deprive of carbon; as, to decarbonize steel; to decarbonizethe blood. Decarbonized iron. See Malleable iron.-- Decarbonized steel, homogenous wrought iron made by a steelprocess, as that of Bessemer; ingot iron.
DECARBONIZER
He who, or that which, decarbonizes a substance.
DECARBURIZATION
The act, process, or result of decarburizing.
DECARBURIZE
To deprive of carbon; to remove the carbon from.
DECARD
To discard. [Obs.]You have cast those by, decarded them. J. Fletcher.
DECARDINALIZE
To depose from the rank of cardinal.
DECASTERE
A measure of capacity, equal to ten steres, or ten cubicmeters.
DECASTICH
A poem consisting of ten lines.
DECASTYLE
Having ten columns in front; -- said of a portico, temple, etc.-- n.
DECASYLLABIC
Having, or consisting of, ten syllables.
DECATHLON
In the modern Olympic Games, a composite contest consisting ofa 100-meter run, a broad jump, putting the shot, a running high-jump,a 400-meter run, throwing the discus, a 100-meter hurdle race, polevaulting, throwing the javelin, and a 1500-meter run.
DECATOIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, decane.
DECAY
To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state,to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; todecline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot;to perish; as, a tree decays; fortunes decay; hopes decay.Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealthaccumulates and men decay. Goldsmith.
DECAYED
Fallen, as to physical or social condition; affected withdecay; rotten; as, decayed vegetation or vegetables; a decayedfortune or gentleman.-- De*cay"ed*ness, n.
DECAYER
A causer of decay. [R.]
DECEASE
Departure, especially departure from this life; death.His decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. Luke ix. 31.And I, the whilst you mourn for his decease, Will with my mourningplaints your plaint increase. Spenser.
DECEASED
Passed away; dead; gone. The deceased, the dead person.
DECEDE
To withdraw. [Obs.] Fuller.
DECEDENT
Removing; departing. Ash.
DECEIT
Any trick, collusion, contrivance, false representation, orunderhand practice, used to defraud another. When injury is therebyeffected, an action of deceit, as it called, lies for compensation.
DECEITFUL
Full of, or characterized by, deceit; serving to mislead orinsnare; trickish; fraudulent; cheating; insincere.Harboring foul deceitful thoughts. Shak.
DECEITFULLY
With intent to deceive.
DECEITLESS
Free from deceit. Bp. Hall.
DECEIVABLY
In a deceivable manner.
DECEIVER
One who deceives; one who leads into error; a cheat; animpostor.The deceived and the deceiver are his. Job xii. 16.
DECEMBRIST
One of those who conspired for constitutional governmentagainst the Emperor Nicholas on his accession to the throne at thedeath of Alexander I., in December, 1825; -- called also Dekabrist.
DECEMDENTATE
Having ten points or teeth.
DECEMFID
Cleft into ten parts.
DECEMLOCULAR
Having ten cells for seeds.
DECEMPEDAL
Having ten feet; decapodal. [R.] Bailey.
DECEMVIRAL
Pertaining to the decemvirs in Rome.
DECEMVIRSHIP
The office of a decemvir. Holland.
DECENCE
Decency. [Obs.] Dryden.
DECENE
One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series.
DECENNARY
A tithing consisting of ten neighboring families. Burrill.
DECENNIAL
Consisting of ten years; happening every ten years; as, adecennial period; decennial games. Hallam.
DECENNIUM
A period of ten years. "The present decennium." Hallam. "Thelast decennium of Chaucer's life." A. W. Ward.
DECENTRALIZATION
The action of decentralizing, or the state of beingdecentralized. "The decentralization of France." J. P. Peters.
DECENTRALIZE
To prevent from centralizing; to cause to withdraw from thecenter or place of concentration; to divide and distribute (what hasbeen united or concentrated); -- esp. said of authority, or theadministration of public affairs.
DECEPTIBLE
Capable of being deceived; deceivable. Sir T. Browne.-- De*cep`ti*bil"i*ty (, n.
DECEPTIOUS
Tending deceive; delusive. [R.]As if those organs had deceptious functions. Shak.
DECEPTIVE
Tending to deceive; having power to mislead, or impress withfalse opinions; as, a deceptive countenance or appearance.Language altogether deceptive, and hiding the deeper reality from oureyes. Trench.Deceptive cadence (Mus.), a cadence on the subdominant, or in someforeign key, postponing the final close.
DECEPTIVELY
In a manner to deceive.
DECEPTIVENESS
The power or habit of deceiving; tendency or aptness todeceive.
DECEPTIVITY
Deceptiveness; a deception; a sham. [R.] Carlyle.
DECEPTORY
Deceptive. [R.]
DECERN
To decree; to adjudge.
DECERNITURE
A decree or sentence of a court. Stormonth.
DECERP
To pluck off; to crop; to gather. [Obs.]
DECERPT
Plucked off or away. [Obs.]
DECERPTIBLE
That may be plucked off, cropped, or torn away. [Obs.] Bailey.
DECERTATION
Contest for mastery; contention; strife. [R.] Arnway.
DECESSION
Departure; decrease; -- opposed to accesion. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
DECHARM
To free from a charm; to disenchant.
DECHRISTIANIZE
To turn from, or divest of, Christianity.
DECIARE
A measure of area, the tenth part of an are; ten square meters.
DECIDABLE
Capable of being decided; determinable.
DECIDE
To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to aconclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of thedefendant.Who shall decide, when doctors disagree Pope.
DECIDEDLY
In a decided manner; indisputably; clearly; thoroughly.
DECIDEMENT
Means of forming a decision. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
DECIDENCE
A falling off. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
DECIDER
One who decides.
DECIDUA
The inner layer of the wall of the uterus, which envelops theembryo, forms a part of the placenta, and is discharged with it.
DECIDUATA
A group of Mammalia in which a decidua is thrown off with, orafter, the fetus, as in the human species.
DECIDUATE
Possessed of, or characterized by, a decidua.
DECIDUITY
Deciduousness. [R.]
DECIDUOUS
Falling off, or subject to fall or be shed, at a certainseason, or a certain stage or interval of growth, as leaves (exceptof evergreens) in autumn, or as parts of animals, such as hair,teeth, antlers, etc.; also, shedding leaves or parts at certainseasons, stages, or intervals; as, deciduous trees; the deciduousmembrane.
DECIDUOUSNESS
The quality or state of being deciduous.
DECILLION
According to the English notation, a million involved to thetenth power, or a unit with sixty ciphers annexed; according to theFrench and American notation, a thousand involved to the eleventhpower, or a unit with thirty-three ciphers annexed. [See the Noteunder Numeration.]
DECILLIONTH
Pertaining to a decillion, or to the quotient of unity dividedby a decillion.
DECIMAL
Of or pertaining to decimals; numbered or proceeding by tens;having a tenfold increase or decrease, each unit being ten times theunit next smaller; as, decimal notation; a decimal coinage. Decimalarithmetic, the common arithmetic, in which numeration proceeds bytens.-- Decimal fraction, a fraction in which the denominator is somepower of 10, as -- Decimal point, a dot or full stop at the left of adecimal fraction. The figures at the left of the point representunits or whole numbers, as 1.05.
DECIMALISM
The system of a decimal currency, decimal weights, measures,etc.
DECIMALIZE
To reduce to a decimal system; as, to decimalize the currency.-- Dec`i*mal*i*za"tion, n.
DECIMALLY
By tens; by means of decimals.
DECIMATOR
One who decimates. South.
DECIME
A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about twocents.
DECIMOSEXTO
A book consisting of sheets, each of which is folded intosixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size ofbook; -- usually written 16mo or 16ยบ.
DECINE
One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetyleneseries; -- called also decenylene.
DECIPHERABLE
Capable of being deciphered; as, old writings not decipherable.
DECIPHERER
One who deciphers.
DECIPHERESS
A woman who deciphers.
DECIPHERMENT
The act of deciphering.
DECIPIENCY
State of being deceived; hallucination. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DECIPIUM
A supposed rare element, said to be associated with cerium,yttrium, etc., in the mineral samarskite, and more recently calledsamarium. Symbol Dp. See Samarium.
DECISORY
Able to decide or determine; having a tendency to decide. [R.]
DECISTERE
The tenth part of the stere or cubic meter, equal to 3.531cubic feet. See Stere.
DECITIZENIZE
To deprive of the rights of citizenship. [R.]We have no law -- as the French have -- to decitizenize a citizen.Edw. Bates.
DECIVILIZE
To reduce from civilization to a savage state. [R.] Blackwood'sMag.
DECK
The upper part or top of a mansard roof or curb roof when madenearly flat.
DECKEL
Same as Deckle.
DECKLE
A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a handmold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, andforms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines thewidth of the paper. [Spelt also deckel, and deckle.]
DECKLE EDGE
The rough, untrimmed edge of paper left by the deckle; also, arough edge in imitation of this.
DECKLE-EDGED
Having a deckle edge; as, deckle-edged paper; a deckle-edgedbook.
DECLAIMANT
A declaimer. [R.]
DECLAIMER
One who declaims; an haranguer.
DECLAMATOR
A declaimer. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.
DECLARABLE
Capable of being declared. Sir T. Browne.
DECLARANT
One who declares. Abbott.
DECLARATION
That part of the process in which the plaintiff sets forth inorder and at large his cause of complaint; the narration of theplaintiff's case containing the count, or counts. See Count, n., 3.Declaration of Independence. (Amer. Hist.) See under Independence.-- Declaration of rights. (Eng. Hist) See Bill of rights, underBill.-- Declaration of trust (Law), a paper subscribed by a grantee ofproperty, acknowledging that he holds it in trust for the purposesand upon the terms set forth. Abbott.
DECLARATIVE
Making declaration, proclamation, or publication; explanatory;assertive; declaratory. "Declarative laws." Baker.The "vox populi," so declarative on the same side. Swift.
DECLARATIVELY
By distinct assertion; not impliedly; in the form of adeclaration.The priest shall expiate it, that is, declaratively. Bates.
DECLARATOR
A form of action by which some right or interest is sought tobe judicially declared.
DECLARATORILY
In a declaratory manner.
DECLARATORY
Making declaration, explanation, or exhibition; making clear ormanifest; affirmative; expressive; as, a clause declaratory of thewill of the legislature. Declaratory act (Law), an act or statutewhich sets forth more clearly, and declares what is, the existinglaw.
DECLARE
To make full statement of, as goods, etc., for the purpose ofpaying taxes, duties, etc. To declare off, to recede from anagreement, undertaking, contract, etc.; to renounce.-- To declare one's self, to avow one's opinion; to show openly whatone thinks, or which side he espouses.
DECLAREDLY
Avowedly; explicitly.
DECLAREDNESS
The state of being declared.
DECLAREMENT
Declaration. [Obs.]
DECLARER
One who makes known or proclaims; that which exhibits. Udall.
DECLASS
To remove from a class; to separate or degrade from one'sclass.  North Am. Rev.
DECLENSIONAL
Belonging to declension.Declensional and syntactical forms. M. Arnold.
DECLINABLE
Capable of being declined; admitting of declension orinflection; as, declinable parts of speech.
DECLINAL
Declining; sloping.
DECLINATE
Bent downward or aside; (Bot.) bending downward in a curve;declined.
DECLINATION
The angular distance of any object from the celestial equator,either northward or southward.
DECLINATORY
Containing or involving a declination or refusal, as ofsubmission to a charge or sentence. Blackstone. Declinatory plea (O.Eng. Law), the plea of sanctuary or of benefit of clergy, beforetrial or conviction; -- now abolished.
DECLINATURE
The act of declining or refusing; as, the declinature of anoffice.
DECLINE
To inflect, or rehearse in order the changes of grammaticalform of; as, to decline a noun or an adjective.
DECLINED
Declinate.
DECLINER
He who declines or rejects.A studious decliner of honors. Evelyn.
DECLINOMETER
An instrument for measuring the declination of the magneticneedle.
DECLINOUS
Declinate.
DECOCTIBLE
Capable of being boiled or digested.
DECOCTURE
A decoction. [R.]
DECOHERER
A device for restoring a coherer to its normal condition afterit has been affected by an electric wave, a process usuallyaccomplished by some method of tapping or shaking, or by rotation ofthe coherer.
DECOLLATE
To sever from the neck; to behead; to decapitate.The decollated head of St. John the Baptist. Burke.
DECOLLATED
Decapitated; worn or cast off in the process of growth, as theapex of certain univalve shells.
DECOLLETAGE
The upper border or part of a dรฉcolletรฉ corsage.
DECOLLETE
Leaving the neck and shoulders uncovered; cut low in the neck,or low-necked, as a dress.
DECOLLING
Beheading. [R.]By a speedy dethroning and decolling of the king. ParliamentaryHistory (1648).
DECOLOR
To deprive of color; to bleach.
DECOLORANT
A substance which removes color, or bleaches.
DECOLORATE
Deprived of color.
DECOLORATION
The removal or absence of color. Ferrand.
DECOLORIZE
To deprive of color; to whiten. Turner.-- De*col`or*i*za"tion, n.
DECOMPLEX
Repeatedly compound; made up of complex constituents.
DECOMPOSABLE
Capable of being resolved into constituent elements.
DECOMPOSE
To separate the constituent parts of; to resolve into originalelements; to set free from previously existing forms of chemicalcombination; to bring to dissolution; to rot or decay.
DECOMPOSED
Separated or broken up; -- said of the crest of birds when thefeathers are divergent.
DECOMPOSITE
See Decompound, a., 2.
DECOMPOUND
Several times compounded or divided, as a leaf or stem;decomposite.
DECOMPOUNDABLE
Capable of being decompounded.
DECONCENTRATE
To withdraw from concentration; to decentralize. [R.]
DECONCENTRATION
Act of deconcentrating. [R.]
DECONCOCT
To decompose. [R.] Fuller.
DECONSECRATE
To deprive of sacredness; to secularize.-- De*con`se*cra"tion, n.
DECORAMENT
Ornament. [Obs.] Bailey.
DECORATE
To deck with that which is becoming, ornamental, or honorary;to adorn; to beautify; to embellish; as, to decorate the person; todecorate an edifice; to decorate a lawn with flowers; to decorate themind with moral beauties; to decorate a hero with honors.Her fat neck was ornamented with jewels, rich bracelets decorated herarms. Thackeray.
DECORATION DAY
= Memorial Day. [U. S.]
DECORATIVE
Suited to decorate or embellish; adorning.-- Dec"o*ra*tive*ness, n. Decorative art, fine art which has for itsend ornamentation, rather than the representation of objects orevents.
DECORATOR
One who decorates, adorns, or embellishes; specifically, anartisan whose business is the decoration of houses, esp. theirinterior decoration.
DECORE
To decorate; to beautify. [Obs.]To decore and beautify the house of God. E. Hall.
DECOREMENT
Ornament. [Obs.]
DECOROUS
Suitable to a character, or to the time, place, and occasion;marked with decorum; becoming; proper; seemly; befitting; as, adecorous speech; decorous behavior; a decorous dress for a judge.A decorous pretext the war. Motley.-- De*co"rous*ly, adv.-- De*co"rous*ness, n.
DECORTICATE
To divest of the bark, husk, or exterior coating; to husk; topeel; to hull. "Great barley dried and decorticated." Arbuthnot.
DECORTICATION
The act of stripping off the bark, rind, hull, or outer coat.
DECORTICATOR
A machine for decorticating wood, hulling grain, etc.; also, aninstrument for removing surplus bark or moss from fruit trees.
DECORUM
Propriety of manner or conduct; grace arising from suitablenessof speech and behavior to one's own character, or to the place andoccasion; decency of conduct; seemliness; that which is seemly orsuitable.Negligent of the duties and decorums of his station. Hallam.If your master Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him, Thatmajesty, to keep decorum, must No less beg than a kingdom. Shak.
DECOY
To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare;to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops intoan ambush; to decoy ducks into a net.Did to a lonely cot his steps decoy. Thomson.E'en while fashion's brightest arts decoy, The heart, distrusting,asks if this be joy. Goldsmith.
DECOY-DUCK
A duck used to lure wild ducks into a decoy; hence, a personemployed to lure others into danger. Beau. & Fl.
DECOY-MAN
A man employed in decoying wild fowl.
DECOYER
One who decoys another.
DECREASE
To grow less, -- opposed to increase; to be diminishedgradually, in size, degree, number, duration, etc., or in strength,quality, or excellence; as, they days decrease in length from June toDecember.He must increase, but I must decrease. John iii. 30.
DECREASELESS
Suffering no decrease. [R.]It [the river] flows and flows, and yet will flow, Volumedecreaseless to the final hour. A. Seward.
DECREASING
Becoming less and less; diminishing.-- De*creas"ing*ly, adv. Decreasing series (Math.), a series inwhich each term is numerically smaller than the preceding term.
DECREATION
Destruction; -- opposed to creation. [R.] Cudworth.
DECREE
An edict or law made by a council for regulating any businesswithin their jurisdiction; as, the decrees of ecclesiasticalcouncils.
DECREEABLE
Capable of being decreed.
DECREER
One who decrees. J. Goodwin.
DECREET
The final judgment of the Court of Session, or of an inferiorcourt, by which the question at issue is decided.
DECREMENT
A name given by Haรผy to the successive diminution of the layersof molecules, applied to the faces of the primitive form, by which hesupposed the secondary forms to be produced.
DECREPIT
Broken down with age; wasted and enfeebled by the infirmitiesof old age; feeble; worn out. "Beggary or decrepit age." Milton.Already decrepit with premature old age. Motley.
DECREPITATE
To roast or calcine so as to cause a crackling noise; as, todecrepitate salt.
DECREPITATION
The act of decrepitating; a crackling noise, such as salt makeswhen roasting.
DECREPITNESS
Decrepitude. [R.] Barrow.
DECREPITUDE
The broken state produced by decay and the infirmities of age;infirm old age.
DECRESCENDO
With decreasing volume of sound; -- a direction to performers,either written upon the staff (abbreviated Dec., or Decresc.), orindicated by the sign.
DECRESCENT
Becoming less by gradual diminution; decreasing; as, adecrescent moon.
DECRETAL
Appertaining to a decree; containing a decree; as, a decretalepistle. Ayliffe.
DECRETE
A decree. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DECRETION
A decrease. [Obs.] Pearson.
DECRETIST
One who studies, or professes the knowledge of, the decretals.
DECRETIVE
Having the force of a decree; determining.The will of God is either decretive or perceptive. Bates.
DECRETORIAL
Decretory; authoritative. Sir T. Browne.
DECRETORILY
In a decretory or definitive manner; by decree.
DECREW
To decrease. [Obs.] Spenser.
DECRIAL
A crying down; a clamorous censure; condemnation by censure.
DECRIER
One who decries.
DECROWN
To deprive of a crown; to discrown. [R.] Hakewill.
DECRUSTATION
The removal of a crust.
DECRY
To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; toclamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage.For small errors they whole plays decry. Dryden.Measures which are extolled by one half of the kingdom are naturallydecried by the other. Addison.
DECUBATION
Act of lying down; decumbence. [Obs.] Evelyn.
DECUBITUS
An attitude assumed in lying down; as, the dorsal decubitus.
DECUMAN
Large; chief; -- applied to an extraordinary billow, supposedby some to be every tenth in order. [R.] Also used substantively."Such decuman billows." Gauden. "The baffled decuman." Lowell.
DECUMBENT
Reclining on the ground, as if too weak to stand, and tendingto rise at the summit or apex; as, a decumbent stem. Gray.
DECUMBENTLY
In a decumbent posture.
DECUMBITURE
Aspect of the heavens at the time of taking to one's sick bed,by which the prognostics of recovery or death were made.
DECUPLE
Tenfold. [R.]
DECURION
A head or chief over ten; especially, an officer who commandeda division of ten soldiers.
DECURIONATE
The office of a decurion.
DECURRENCE
The act of running down; a lapse. [R.] Gauden.
DECURRENT
Extending downward; -- said of a leaf whose base extendsdownward and forms a wing along the stem.-- De*cur"rent*ly, adv.
DECURSION
A flowing; also, a hostile incursion. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
DECURSIVE
Running down; decurrent.
DECURSIVELY
In a decursive manner. Decursively pinnate (Bot.), having theleaflets decurrent, or running along the petiole; -- said of a leaf.
DECURT
To cut short; to curtail. [Obs.] Bale.
DECURTATION
Act of cutting short. [Obs.]
DECURY
A set or squad of ten men under a decurion. Sir W. Raleigh.
DECUSSATE
To cross at an acute angle; to cut or divide in the form of X;to intersect; -- said of lines in geometrical figures, rays of light,nerves, etc.
DECUSSATELY
In a decussate manner.
DECUSSATION
Act of crossing at an acute angle, or state of being thuscrossed; an intersection in the form of an X; as, the decussation oflines, nerves, etc.
DECUSSATIVE
Intersecting at acute angles. Sir T. Browne.
DECUSSATIVELY
Crosswise; in the form of an X. "Anointed decussatively." SirT. Browne.
DECYL
A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, butregarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compoundsof the paraffin series.
DECYLIC
Allied to, or containing, the radical decyl.
DEDALIAN
See Dรฆdalian.
DEDALOUS
See Dรฆdalous.
DEDANS
A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators.
DEDE
Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEDECORATE
To bring to shame; to disgrace. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEDECORATION
Disgrace; dishonor. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEDECOROUS
Disgraceful; unbecoming. [R.] Bailey.
DEDENTITION
The shedding of teeth. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
DEDICATE
Dedicated; set apart; devoted; consecrated. "Dedicate tonothing temporal." Shak.
DEDICATEE
One to whom a thing is dedicated; -- correlative to dedicator.
DEDICATOR
One who dedicates; more especially, one who inscribes a book tothe favor of a patron, or to one whom he desires to compliment.
DEDICATORIAL
Dedicatory.
DEDICATORY
Constituting or serving as a dedication; complimental. "Anepistle dedicatory." Dryden.
DEDIMUS
A writ to commission private persons to do some act in place ofa judge, as to examine a witness, etc. Bouvier.
DEDITION
The act of yielding; surrender. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
DEDOLENT
Feeling no compunction; apathetic. [R.] Hallywell.
DEDUCEMENT
Inference; deduction; thing deduced. [R.] Dryden.
DEDUCIBILITY
Deducibleness.
DEDUCIBLENESS
The quality of being deducible; deducibility.
DEDUCIBLY
By deduction.
DEDUCIVE
That deduces; inferential.
DEDUCTIVE
Of or pertaining to deduction; capable of being deduced frompremises; deducible.All knowledge of causes is deductive. Glanvill.Notions and ideas . . . used in a deductive process. Whewell.
DEDUCTIVELY
By deduction; by way of inference; by consequence. Sir T.Browne.
DEDUCTOR
The pilot whale or blackfish.
DEDUIT
Delight; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEDUPLICATION
The division of that which is morphologically one organ intotwo or more, as the division of an organ of a plant into a pair orcluster.
DEED
Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEED POLL
A deed of one part, or executed by only one party, anddistinguished from an indenture by having the edge of the parchmentor paper cut even, or polled as it was anciently termed, instead ofbeing indented. Burrill.
DEEDFUL
Full of deeds or exploits; active; stirring. [R.] "A deedfullife." Tennyson.
DEEDLESS
Not performing, or not having performed, deeds or exploits;inactive.Deedless in his tongue. Shak.
DEEDY
Industrious; active. [R.] Cowper.
DEEM
Opinion; judgment. [Obs.] Shak.
DEEMSTER
A judge in the Isle of Man who decides controversies withoutprocess. Cowell.
DEEP
To a great depth; with depth; far down; profoundly; deeply.Deep-versed in books, and shallow in himself. Milton.Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Pope.
DEEP-FET
Deeply fetched or drawn. [Obs.] "Deep-fet groans." Shak.
DEEP-LAID
Laid deeply; formed with cunning and sagacity; as, deep-laidplans.
DEEP-MOUTHED
Having a loud and sonorous voice. "Deep-mouthed dogs." Dryden.
DEEP-READ
Profoundly book-learned. "Great writers and deep-read men."L'Estrange.
DEEP-SEA
Of or pertaining to the deeper parts of the sea; as, a deep-sealine (i. e., a line to take soundings at a great depth); deep-sealead; deep-sea soundings, explorations, etc.
DEEP-WAISTED
Having a deep waist, as when, in a ship, the poop andforecastle are much elevated above the deck.
DEEPEN
To become deeper; as, the water deepens at every cast of thelead; the plot deepens.His blood-red tresses deepening in the sun. Byron.
DEER
A ruminant of the genus Cervus, of many species, and of relatedgenera of the family Cervidรฆ. The males, and in some species thefemales, have solid antlers, often much branched, which are shedannually. Their flesh, for which they are hunted, is called venison.
DEER-NECK
A deerlike, or thin, ill-formed neck, as of a horse.
DEERBERRY
A shrub of the blueberry group (Vaccinium stamineum); also, itsbitter, greenish white berry; -- called also squaw huckleberry.
DEERGRASS
An American genus (Rhexia) of perennial herbs, with oppositeleaves, and showy flowers (usually bright purple), with four petalsand eight stamens, -- the only genus of the order Melastomaceรฆinhabiting a temperate clime.
DEERHOUND
One of a large and fleet breed of hounds used in hunting deer;a staghound.
DEERLET
A chevrotain. See Kanchil, and Napu.
DEERSKIN
The skin of a deer, or the leather which is made from it.Hakluyt. Longfellow.
DEERSTALKER
One who practices deerstalking.
DEERSTALKING
The hunting of deer on foot, by stealing upon them unawares.
DEES
Dice. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEESIS
An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being.
DEESS
A goddess. [Obs.] Croft.
DEEV
See Dev.
DEFACE
To destroy; to make null. [Obs.][Profane scoffing] doth . . . deface the reverence of religion.Bacon.For all his power was utterly defaste [defaced]. Spenser.
DEFACER
One who, or that which, defaces or disfigures.
DEFAIL
To cause fail. [Obs.]
DEFAILANCE
Failure; miscarriage. [Obs.]Possibility of defailance in degree or continuance. Comber.
DEFAILURE
Failure. [Obs.] Barrow.
DEFALCATE
To cut off; to take away or deduct a part of; -- used chieflyof money, accounts, rents, income, etc.To show what may be practicably and safely defalcated from the [theestimates]. Burke.
DEFALCATOR
A defaulter or embezzler. [Modern]
DEFALK
To lop off; to bate. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
DEFAMATION
Act of injuring another's reputation by any slanderouscommunication, written or oral; the wrong of maliciously injuring thegood name of another; slander; detraction; calumny; aspersion.
DEFAMATORY
Containing defamation; injurious to reputation; calumnious;slanderous; as, defamatory words; defamatory writings.
DEFAME
Dishonor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEFAMER
One who defames; a slanderer; a detractor; a calumniator.
DEFAMINGLY
In a defamatory manner.
DEFAMOUS
Defamatory. [Obs.]
DEFATIGABLE
Capable of being wearied or tired out. [R.] Glanvill.
DEFATIGATE
To weary or tire out; to fatigue. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.
DEFATIGATION
Weariness; fatigue. [R.] Bacon.
DEFAULT
A neglect of, or failure to take, some step necessary to securethe benefit of law, as a failure to appear in court at a dayassigned, especially of the defendant in a suit when called to makeanswer; also of jurors, witnesses, etc. In default of, in case offailure or lack of.Cooks could make artificial birds and fishes in default of the realones. Arbuthnot.-- To suffer a default (Law), to permit an action to be calledwithout appearing to answer.
DEFEASANCE
A condition, relating to a deed, which being performed, thedeed is defeated or rendered void; or a collateral deed, made at thesame time with a feoffment, or other conveyance, containingconditions, on the performance of which the estate then created maybe defeated.
DEFEASANCED
Liable to defeasance; capable of being made void or forfeited.
DEFEASIBLE
Capable of being annulled or made void; as, a defeasible title.-- De*fea"si*ble*ness, n.
DEFEATURED
Changed in features; deformed. [R.]Features when defeatured in the . . . way I have described. DeQuincey.
DEFECATE
Freed from anything that can pollute, as dregs, lees, etc.;refined; purified.Till the soul be defecate from the dregs of sense. Bates.
DEFECATION
The act or process of voiding excrement.
DEFECATOR
That which cleanses or purifies; esp., an apparatus forremoving the feculencies of juices and sirups. Knight.
DEFECT
To fail; to become deficient. [Obs.] "Defected honor." Warner.
DEFECTIBILITY
Deficiency; imperfection. [R.] Ld. Digby. Jer. Taylor.
DEFECTIBLE
Liable to defect; imperfect. [R.] "A defectible understanding."Jer. Taylor.
DEFECTION
Act of abandoning a person or cause to which one is bound byallegiance or duty, or to which one has attached himself; desertion;failure in duty; a falling away; apostasy; backsliding. "Defectionand falling away from God." Sir W. Raleigh.The general defection of the whole realm. Sir J. Davies.
DEFECTIONIST
One who advocates or encourages defection.
DEFECTIOUS
Having defects; imperfect. [Obs.] "Some one defectious piece."Sir P. Sidney.
DEFECTIVE
Lacking some of the usual forms of declension or conjugation;as, a defective noun or verb.-- De*fect"ive*ly, adv.-- De*fect"ive*ness, n.
DEFECTUOSITY
Great imperfection. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
DEFECTUOUS
Full of defects; imperfect. [Obs.] Barrow.
DEFEDATION
The act of making foul; pollution. [Obs.]
DEFENCE
See Defense.
DEFEND
To deny the right of the plaintiff in regard to (the suit, orthe wrong charged); to oppose or resist, as a claim at law; tocontest, as a suit. Burrill.
DEFENDABLE
Capable of being defended; defensible. [R.]
DEFENDANT
A person required to make answer in an action or suit; --opposed to plaintiff. Abbott.
DEFENDEE
One who is defended. [R. & Ludicrous]
DEFENDER
One who defends; one who maintains, supports, protects, orvindicates; a champion; an advocate; a vindicator.Provinces . . . left without their ancient and puissant defenders.Motley.
DEFENDRESS
A female defender. [R.]Defendress of the faith. Stow.
DEFENSATIVE
That which serves to protect or defend.
DEFENSE
To furnish with defenses; to fortify. [Obs.] [Written alsodefence.]Better manned and more strongly defensed. Hales.
DEFENSELESS
Destitute of defense; unprepared to resist attack; unable tooppose; unprotected.-- De*fense"less*ly, adv.-- De*fense"less*ness, n.
DEFENSER
Defender. [Obs.] Foxe.
DEFENSIBILITY
Capability of being defended.
DEFENSIBLENESS
Capability of being defended; defensibility. Priestley.
DEFENSIVE
That which defends; a safeguard.Wars preventive, upon just fears, are true defensive. Bacon.To be on the defensive, To stand on the defensive, to be or stand ina state or posture of defense or resistance, in opposition toaggression or attack.
DEFENSIVELY
On the defensive.
DEFENSOR
A defender or an advocate in court; a guardian or protector.
DEFENSORY
Tending to defend; defensive; as, defensory preparations.
DEFER
To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay theexecution of; to delay; to withhold.Defer the spoil of the city until night. Shak.God . . . will not long defer To vindicate the glory of his name.Milton.
DEFERENCE
A yielding of judgment or preference from respect to the wishesor opinion of another; submission in opinion; regard; respect;complaisance.Deference to the authority of thoughtful and sagacious men. Whewell.Deference is the most complicate, the most indirect, and the mostelegant of all compliments. Shenstone.
DEFERENT
Serving to carry; bearing. [R.] "Bodies deferent." Bacon.
DEFERENTIAL
Expressing deference; accustomed to defer.
DEFERENTIALLY
With deference.
DEFERMENT
The act of delaying; postponement. [R.]My grief, joined with the instant business, Begs a deferment.Suckling.
DEFERRER
One who defers or puts off.
DEFEUDALIZE
To deprive of the feudal character or form.
DEFIANT
Full of defiance; bold; insolent; as, a defiant spirit or act.In attitude stern and defiant. Longfellow.-- De*fi"ant*ly, adv.-- De*fi"ant*ness, n.
DEFIATORY
Bidding or manifesting defiance. [Obs.] Shelford.
DEFIBRINATE
To deprive of fibrin, as fresh blood or lymph by stirring withtwigs.
DEFIBRINATION
The act or process of depriving of fibrin.
DEFIBRINIZE
To defibrinate.
DEFICIENCE
Same as Deficiency.Thou in thyself art perfect, and in thee Is no deficience found.Milton.
DEFICIENCY
The state of being deficient; inadequacy; want; failure;imperfection; shortcoming; defect. "A deficiencyof blood." Arbuthnot.[Marlborough] was so miserably ignorant, that his deficiencies madehim the ridicule of his contemporaries. Buckle.Deficiency of a curve (Geom.), the amount by which the number ofdouble points on a curve is short of the maximum for curves of thesame degree.
DEFICIENT
Wanting, to make up completeness; wanting, as regards arequirement; not sufficient; inadequate; defective; imperfect;incomplete; lacking; as, deficient parts; deficient estate; deficientstrength; deficient in judgment.The style was indeed deficient in ease and variety. Macaulay.Deficient number. (Arith.) See under Abundant.-- De*fi"cient-ly, adv.
DEFICIT
Deficiency in amount or quality; a falling short; lack; as, adeficit in taxes, revenue, etc. Addison.
DEFIER
One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of thelaws.
DEFIGURATION
Disfiguration; mutilation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DEFIGURE
To delineate. [Obs.]These two stones as they are here defigured. Weever.
DEFILADE
To raise, as a rampart, so as to shelter interior workscommanded from some higher point.
DEFILADING
The art or act of determining the directions and heights of thelines of rampart with reference to the protection of the interiorfrom exposure to an enemy's fire from any point within range, or fromany works which may be erected. Farrow.
DEFILE
To march off in a line, file by file; to file off.
DEFILEMENT
The protection of the interior walls of a fortification from anenfilading fire, as by covering them, or by a high parapet on theexposed side.
DEFILER
One who defiles; one who corrupts or violates; that whichpollutes.
DEFILIATION
Abstraction of a child from its parents. Lamb.
DEFINABLE
Capable of being defined, limited, or explained; determinable;describable by definition; ascertainable; as, definable limits;definable distinctions or regulations; definable words.-- De*fin"a*bly, adv.
DEFINE
To determine; to decide. [Obs.]
DEFINEMENT
The act of defining; definition; description. [Obs.] Shak.
DEFINER
One who defines or explains.
DEFINITE
A thing defined or determined. [Obs.]
DEFINITELY
In a definite manner; with precision; precisely; determinately.
DEFINITENESS
The state of being definite; determinateness; precision;certainty.
DEFINITION
An exact enunciation of the constituents which make up thelogical essence.
DEFINITIONAL
Relating to definition; of the nature of a definition; employedin defining.
DEFINITIVE
A word used to define or limit the extent of the significationof a common noun, such as the definite article, and some pronouns.
DEFINITIVELY
In a definitive manner.
DEFINITIVENESS
The quality of being definitive.
DEFINITUDE
Definiteness. [R.]Definitude . . . is a knowledge of minute differences. Sir W.Hamilton.
DEFIX
To fix; to fasten; to establish. [Obs.] "To defix theirprincely seat . . . in that extreme province." Hakluyt.
DEFLAGRABILITY
The state or quality of being deflagrable.The ready deflagrability . . . of saltpeter. Boyle.
DEFLAGRABLE
Burning with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter;hence, slightly explosive; liable to snap and crackle when heated, assalt.
DEFLAGRATE
To burn with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; also,to snap and crackle with slight explosions when heated, as salt.
DEFLAGRATION
The act or process of deflagrating.
DEFLAGRATOR
A form of the voltaic battery having large plates, used forproducing rapid and powerful combustion.
DEFLATE
To reduce from an inflated condition.
DEFLECT
To cause to turn aside; to bend; as, rays of light are oftendeflected.Sitting with their knees deflected under them. Lord (1630).
DEFLECTABLE
Capable of being deflected.
DEFLECTION
The deviation of a shot or ball from its true course.
DEFLECTIONIZATION
The act of freeing from inflections. Earle.
DEFLECTIONIZE
To free from inflections.Deflectionized languages are said to be analytic. Earle.
DEFLECTIVE
Causing deflection. Deflective forces, forces that cause a bodyto deviate from its course.
DEFLECTOR
That which deflects, as a diaphragm in a furnace, or a come ina lamp (to deflect and mingle air and gases and help combustion).
DEFLEXED
Bent abruptly downward.
DEFLEXION
See Deflection.
DEFLEXURE
A bending or turning aside; deflection. Bailey.
DEFLORATE
Past the flowering state; having shed its pollen. Gray.
DEFLOURER
One who deflours; a ravisher.
DEFLOW
To flow down. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DEFLOWER
Same as Deflour.An earthquake . . . deflowering the gardens. W. Montagu.If a man had deflowered a virgin. Milton.
DEFLOWERER
See Deflourer. Milton.
DEFLUOUS
Flowing down; falling off. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEFLUX
Downward flow. [Obs.] Bacon.
DEFLUXION
A discharge or flowing of humors or fluid matter, as from thenose in catarrh; -- sometimes used synonymously with inflammation.Dunglison.
DEFLY
Deftly. [Obs.] Spenser.
DEFOEDATION
Defedation. [Obs.]
DEFOLIATION
The separation of ripened leaves from a branch or stem; thefalling or shedding of the leaves.
DEFORCEOR
Same as Deforciant. [Obs.]
DEFORCIATION
Same as Deforcement, n.
DEFOREST
To clear of forests; to dis U. S. Agric. Reports.
DEFORM
Deformed; misshapen; shapeless; horrid. [Obs.]Sight so deform what heart of rock could long Dry-eyed behold Milton.
DEFORMED
Unnatural or distorted in form; having a deformity; misshapen;disfigured; as, a deformed person; a deformed head.-- De*form"ed*ly, adv.-- De*form"ed*ness, n.
DEFORMER
One who deforms.
DEFORSER
A deforciant. [Obs.] Blount.
DEFRAUD
To deprive of some right, interest, or property, by a deceitfuldevice; to withhold from wrongfully; to injure by embezzlement; tocheat; to overreach; as, to defraud a servant, or a creditor, or thestate; -- with of before the thing taken or withheld.We have defrauded no man. 2 Cor. vii. 2.Churches seem injured and defrauded of their rights. Hooker.
DEFRAUDATION
The act of defrauding; a taking by fraud. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
DEFRAUDER
One who defrauds; a cheat; an embezzler; a peculator.
DEFRAUDMENT
Privation by fraud; defrauding. [Obs.] Milton.
DEFRAYAL
The act of defraying; payment; as, the defrayal of necessarycosts.
DEFRAYER
One who pays off expenses.
DEFRAYMENT
Payment of charges.
DEFT
Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat. [Archaic orPoetic] "The deftest way." Shak. "Deftest feats." Gay.The limping god, do deft at his new ministry. Dryden.Let me be deft and debonair. Byron.
DEFTLY
Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly. "Deftly dancing." Drayton.Thyself and office deftly show. Shak.
DEFTNESS
The quality of being deft. Drayton.
DEFUNCT
Having finished the course of life; dead; deceased. "Defunctorgans." Shak.The boar, defunct, lay tripped up, near. Byron.
DEFUNCTION
Death. [Obs.]After defunction of King Pharamond. Shak.
DEFUNCTIVE
Funereal. [Obs.] "Defunctive music." Shak.
DEFUSE
To disorder; to make shapeless. [Obs.] Shak.
DEFY
A challenge. [Obs.] Dryden.
DEGAGE
Unconstrained; easy; free. Vanbrugh.
DEGARNISHMENT
The act of depriving, as of furniture, apparatus, or agarrison. [R.]
DEGENERATE
Having become worse than one's kind, or one's former state;having declined in worth; having lost in goodness; deteriorated;degraded; unworthy; base; low.Faint-hearted and degenerate king. Shak.A degenerate and degraded state. Milton.Degenerate from their ancient blood. Swift.These degenerate days. Pope.I had planted thee a noble vine . . . : how then art thou turned intothe degenerate plant of a strange vine unto me Jer. ii. 21.
DEGENERATELY
In a degenerate manner; unworthily.
DEGENERATENESS
Degeneracy.
DEGENERATION
That condition of a tissue or an organ in which its vitalityhas become either diminished or perverted; a substitution of a lowerfor a higher form of structure; as, fatty degeneration of the liver.
DEGENERATIONIST
A believer in the theory of degeneration, or hereditarydegradation of type; as, the degenerationists hold that savagery isthe result of degeneration from a superior state.
DEGENERATIVE
Undergoing or producing degeneration; tending to degenerate.
DEGENEROUS
Degenerate; base. [Obs.] "Degenerous passions." Dryden."Degenerous practices." South.
DEGENEROUSLY
Basely. [Obs.]
DEGERM
To extract the germs from, as from wheat grains.
DEGERMINATOR
A machine for breaking open the kernels of wheat or other grainand removing the germs.
DEGLAZE
To remove the glaze from, as pottery or porcelain, so as togive a dull finish.
DEGLAZING
The process of giving a dull or ground surface to glass by acidor by mechanical means. Knight.
DEGLORIED
Deprived of glory; dishonored. [Obs.] "With thorns degloried."G. Fletcher.
DEGLUTINATE
To loosen or separate by dissolving the glue which unties; tounglue.
DEGLUTINATION
The act of ungluing.
DEGLUTITION
The act or process of swallowing food; the power of swallowing.The muscles employed in the act of deglutition. Paley.
DEGLUTITIOUS
Pertaining to deglutition. [R.]
DEGLUTITORY
Serving for, or aiding in, deglutition.
DEGRADATION
A gradual wearing down or wasting, as of rocks and banks, bythe action of water, fro
DEGRADE
To reduce in altitude or magnitude, as hills and mountains; towear down.
DEGRADED
Having the typical characters or organs in a partiallydeveloped condition, or lacking certain parts.Some families of plants are degraded dicotyledons. Dana.
DEGRADEMENT
Deprivation of rank or office; degradation. [R.] Milton.
DEGRADINGLY
In a degrading manner.
DEGRAVATION
The act of making heavy. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEGREASE
To remove grease or fatty matter from, as wool or silk.
DEGREE
A certain distance or remove in the line of descent,determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain ofrelationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree.In the 11th century an opinion began to gain ground in Italy, thatthird cousins might marry, being in the seventh degree according tothe civil law. Hallam.
DEGU
A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the familyOctodontidรฆ.
DEGUM
To deprive of, or free from, gum; as, to degum ramie.
DEGUST
To taste. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DEGUSTATION
Tasting; the appreciation of sapid qualities by the tasteorgans. Bp. Hall.
DEHISCE
To gape; to open by dehiscence.
DEHISCENCE
A gaping or bursting open along a definite line of attachmentor suture, without tearing, as in the opening of pods, or thebursting of capsules at maturity so as to emit seeds, etc.; also, thebursting open of follicles, as in the ovaries of animals, for theexpulsion of their contents.
DEHISCENT
Characterized by dehiscence; opening in some definite way, asthe capsule of a plant.
DEHONESTATE
To disparage. [Obs.]
DEHONESTATION
A dishonoring; disgracing. [Obs.] Gauden.
DEHORN
To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth or the horns of(cattle) by burning their ends soon after they start. See Dishorn."Dehorning cattle." Farm Journal (1886).
DEHORS
Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record,will, or other instrument.
DEHORT
To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade. [Obs.]The apostles vehemently dehort us from unbelief. Bp. Ward."Exhort" remains, but dehort, a word whose place neither "dissuade"nor any other exactly supplies, has escaped us. Trench.
DEHORTATION
Dissuasion; advice against something. [R.]
DEHORTATIVE
Dissuasive. [R.]
DEHORTATORY
Fitted or designed to dehort or dissuade. Bp. Hall.
DEHORTER
A dissuader; an adviser to the contrary. [Obs.]
DEHUMANIZE
To divest of human qualities, such as pity, tenderness, etc.;as, dehumanizing influences.
DEHUSK
To remove the husk from. [Obs.] "Wheat dehusked upon thefloor." Drant.
DEHYDRATE
To deprive of water; to render free from water; as, todehydrate alcohol.
DEHYDRATION
The act or process of freeing from water; also, the conditionof a body from which the water has been removed.
DEHYDROGENATE
To deprive of, or free from, hydrogen.
DEHYDROGENATION
The act or process or freeing from hydrogen; also, thecondition resulting from the removal of hydrogen.
DEICTIC
Direct; proving directly; -- applied to reasoning, and opposedto elenchtic or refutative.
DEICTICALLY
In a manner to show or point out; directly; absolutely;definitely.When Christ spake it deictically. Hammond.
DEIFICATION
The act of deifying; exaltation to divine honors; apotheosis;excessive praise.
DEIFIED
Honored or worshiped as a deity; treated with supreme regard;godlike.
DEIFIER
One who deifies.
DEIFORMITY
Likeness to deity. [Obs.]
DEIGN
To think worthy; to vouchsafe; to condescend; -- followed by aninfinitive.O deign to visit our forsaken seats. Pope.Yet not Lord Cranstone deigned she greet. Sir W. Scott.Round turned he, as not deigning Those craven ranks to see. Macaulay.
DEIGNOUS
Haughty; disdainful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEIL
Devil; -- spelt also deel. [Scot.] Deil's buckie. See underBuckie.
DEINOCERAS
See Dinoceras.
DEINORNIS
See Dinornis.
DEINOSAUR
See Dinosaur.
DEINOTHERIUM
See Dinotherium.
DEINTEGRATE
To disintegrate. [Obs.]
DEIPAROUS
Bearing or bringing forth a god; -- said of the Virgin Mary.[Obs.] Bailey.
DEIPNOSOPHIST
One of an ancient sect of philosophers, who cultivated learnedconversation at meals.
DEIS
See Dais.
DEISM
The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of thosewho acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation.
DEIST
One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealedreligion; a freethinker.
DEISTICALLY
After the manner of deists.
DEISTICALNESS
State of being deistical.
DEITATE
Deified. [Obs.] Granmer.
DEJECT
Dejected. [Obs.]
DEJECTA
Excrements; as, the dejecta of the sick.
DEJECTED
Cast down; afflicted; low-spirited; sad; as, a dejected look orcountenance.-- De*ject"ed*ly, adv.-- De*ject"ed*ness, n.
DEJECTER
One who casts down, or dejects.
DEJECTLY
Dejectedly. [Obs.]
DEJECTURE
That which is voided; excrements. Arbuthnot.
DEJERATE
To swear solemnly; to take an oath. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DEJERATION
The act of swearing solemnly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DEJEUNE
A dรฉjeuner.Take a dรฉjeunรฉ of muskadel and eggs. B. Jonson.
DEJEUNER
A breakfast; sometimes, also, a lunch or collation.
DEKA-
A prefix signifying ten. See Deca-.
DEKABRIST
A Decembrist.
DEKAGRAM
Same as Decagram.
DEKALITER
Same as Decaliter.
DEKAMETER
Same as Decameter.
DEKASTERE
Same as Decastere.
DEKLE
See Deckle.
DEL
Share; portion; part. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEL CREDERE
An agreement by which an agent or factor, in consideration ofan additional premium or commission (called a del crederecommission), engages, when he sells goods on credit, to insure,warrant, or guarantee to his principal the solvency of the purchaser,the engagement of the factor being to pay the debt himself if it isnot punctually discharged by the buyer when it becomes due.
DELACERATION
A tearing in pieces. [Obs.] Bailey.
DELACRYMATION
An involuntary discharge of watery humors from the eyes;wateriness of the eyes. [Obs.] Bailey.
DELACTATION
The act of weaning. [Obs.] Bailey.
DELAINE
A kind of fabric for women's dresses.
DELAMINATION
Formation and separation of laminรฆ or layers; one of themethods by which the various blastodermic layers of the ovum aredifferentiated.
DELAPSATION
See Delapsion. Ray.
DELAPSE
To pass down by inheritance; to lapse. [Obs.]Which Anne derived alone the right, before all other, Of the delapsedcrown from Philip. Drayton.
DELAPSION
A falling down, or out of place; prolapsion.
DELASSATION
Fatigue.Able to continue without delassation. Ray.
DELATE
To dilate. [Obs.] Goodwin.
DELATION
Accusation by an informer. Milman.
DELATOR
An accuser; an informer. [R.] Howell.
DELAWARE
An American grape, with compact bunches of small, amber-coloredberries, sweet and of a good flavor.
DELAWARES
A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the valley of theDelaware River, but now mostly located in the Indian Territory.
DELAY
A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingeringinactivity; stop; detention; hindrance.Without any delay, on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat. Actsxxv. 17.The government ought to be settled without the delay of a day.Macaulay.
DELAYER
One who delays; one who lingers.
DELAYINGLY
By delays. [R.] Tennyson.
DELAYMENT
Hindrance. [Obs.] Gower.
DELE
Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which hasbeen put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus: .
DELEBLE
Capable of being blotted out or erased. "An impression easilydeleble." Fuller.
DELECTABLE
Highly pleasing; delightful.Delectable both to behold and taste. Milton.-- De*lec"ta*ble*ness, n.-- De*lec"ta*bly, adv.
DELECTATE
To delight; to charm. [R.]
DELECTATION
Great pleasure; delight.
DELECTUS
A name given to an elementary book for learners of Latin orGreek. G. Eliot.
DELEGATE
Sent to act for a represent another; deputed; as, a delegatejudge. "Delegate power." Strype.
DELEGATION
A kind of novation by which a debtor, to be liberated from hiscreditor, gives him a third person, who becomes obliged in his steadto the creditor, or to the person appointed by him. Pothier.
DELEGATORY
Holding a delegated position. Nash.
DELENDA
Things to be erased or blotted out.
DELENIFICAL
Assuaging pain. [Obs.] Bailey.
DELETE
To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.I have, therefore, . . . inserted eleven stanzas which do not appearin Sir Walter Scott's version, and have deleted eight. Aytoun.
DELETERIOUS
Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious; as, a deleteriousplant or quality; a deleterious example.-- Del`e*te"ri*ous*ly, adv.-- Del`e*te"ri*ous*ness, n.
DELETERY
Destructive; poisonous. [Obs.] "Deletery medicines." Hudibras.
DELETION
Act of deleting, blotting out, or erasing; destruction. [Obs.]Jer. Taylor.A total deletion of every person of the opposing party. Sir M. Hale.
DELETITIOUS
Of such a nature that anything may be erased from it; -- saidof paper.
DELETIVE
Adapted to destroy or obliterate. [R.] Evelyn.
DELETORY
That which blots out. [Obs.] "A deletory of sin." Jer. Taylor.
DELF
A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch. [Written also delft, anddelve.] [Obs.]The delfts would be so flown with waters, that no gins or machinescould . . . keep them dry. Ray.
DELFT
Same as Delftware.
DELIBATE
To taste; to take a sip of; to dabble in. [Obs.]
DELIBATION
Act of tasting; a slight trial. [Obs.] Berkeley.
DELIBER
To deliberate. [Obs.]
DELIBERATE
To weigh in the mind; to consider the reasons for and against;to consider maturely; to reflect upon; to ponder; as, to deliberate aquestion.
DELIBERATELY
With careful consideration, or deliberation; circumspectly;warily; not hastily or rashly; slowly; as, a purpose deliberatelyformed.
DELIBERATENESS
The quality of being deliberate; calm consideration;circumspection.
DELIBERATIVE
Pertaining to deliberation; proceeding or acting bydeliberation, or by discussion and examination; deliberating; as, adeliberative body.A consummate work of deliberative wisdom. Bancroft.The court of jurisdiction is to be distinguished from thedeliberative body, the advisers of the crown. Hallam.
DELIBERATIVELY
In a deliberative manner; circumspectly; considerately.
DELIBERATOR
One who deliberates.
DELIBRATE
To strip off the bark; to peel. [Obs.] Ash.
DELIBRATION
The act of stripping off the bark. [Obs.] Ash.
DELICATELY
In a delicate manner.
DELICATENESS
The quality of being delicate.
DELICATESSEN
Relishes for the table; dainties; delicacies. "A dealer indelicatessen".  G. H. Putnam.
DELICES
Delicacies; delights. [Obs.] "Dainty delices." Spenser.
DELICIATE
To delight one's self; to indulge in feasting; to revel. [Obs.]
DELICIOUSLY
Delightfully; as, to feed deliciously; to be deliciouslyentertained.
DELICT
An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law) an offenseof a lesser degree; a misdemeanor.Every regulation of the civil code necessarily implies a delict inthe event of its violation. Jeffrey.
DELIGATE
To bind up; to bandage.
DELIGATION
A binding up; a bandaging. Wiseman.
DELIGHT
To give delight to; to affect with great pleasure; to pleasehighly; as, a beautiful landscape delights the eye; harmony delightsthe ear.Inventions to delight the taste. Shak.Delight our souls with talk of knightly deeds. Tennyson.
DELIGHTABLE
Capable of delighting; delightful. [Obs.]Many a spice delightable. Rom. of R.
DELIGHTED
Endowed with delight.If virtue no delighted beauty lack. Shak.
DELIGHTEDLY
With delight; gladly.
DELIGHTER
One who gives or takes delight.
DELIGHTFUL
Highly pleasing; affording great pleasure and satisfaction."Delightful bowers." Spenser. "Delightful fruit." Milton.
DELIGHTING
Giving delight; gladdening.-- De*light"ing*ly, adv. Jer. Taylor.
DELIGHTLESS
Void of delight. Thomson.
DELIGHTOUS
Delightful. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
DELIGHTSOME
Very pleasing; delightful. "Delightsome vigor." Grew.Ye shall be a delightsome land, . . . saith the Lord. Mal. iii. 12.-- De*light"some*ly, adv.-- De*light"some*ness, n.
DELIGNATE
To clear or strip of wood (by cutting down trees). [R.]Fuller.
DELILAH
The mistress of Samson, who betrayed him (Judges xvi.); hence,a harlot; a temptress.Other Delilahs on a smaller scale Burns met with during his Dumfriessojourn. J. C. Shairp.
DELIMIT
To fix the limits of; to demarcate; to bound.
DELIMITATION
The act or process of fixing limits or boundaries; limitation.Gladstone.
DELINEABLE
Capable of being, or liable to be, delineated. Feltham.
DELINEAMENT
Delineation; sketch. Dr. H. More.
DELINEATE
Delineated; portrayed. [R.]
DELINEATOR
A perambulator which records distances and delineates aprofile, as of a road.
DELINEATORY
That delineates; descriptive; drawing the outline; delineating.
DELINEATURE
Delineation. [Obs.]
DELINITION
A smearing. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DELINQUENCY
Failure or omission of duty; a fault; a misdeed; an offense; amisdemeanor; a crime.The delinquencies of the little commonwealth would be represented inthe most glaring colors. Motley.
DELINQUENT
Failing in duty; offending by neglect of duty.
DELINQUENTLY
So as to fail in duty.
DELIQUATE
To melt or be dissolved; to deliquesce. [Obs.] Boyle.
DELIQUATION
A melting. [Obs.]
DELIQUESCE
To dissolve gradually and become liquid by attracting andabsorbing moisture from the air, as certain salts, acids, andalkalies.In very moist air crystals of strontites deliquesce. Black.
DELIQUESCENCE
The act of deliquescing or liquefying; process by whichanything deliquesces; tendency to melt.
DELIQUESCENT
Branching so that the stem is lost in branches, as in mostdeciduous trees. Gray.
DELIQUIATE
To melt and become liquid by absorbing water from the air; todeliquesce. Fourcroy.
DELIQUIATION
The act of deliquating.
DELIQUIUM
A melting or dissolution in the air, or in a moist place; aliquid condition; as, a salt falls into a deliquium. [R.]
DELIRACY
Delirium. [Obs.]
DELIRAMENT
A wandering of the mind; a crazy fancy. [Obs.] Heywood.
DELIRANCY
Delirium. [Obs.] Gauden.
DELIRANT
Delirious. [Obs.] Owen.
DELIRATE
To madden; to rave. [Obs.]An infatuating and delirating spirit in it. Holland.
DELIRATION
Aberration of mind; delirium. J. Motley.Deliration or alienation of the understanding. Mede.
DELIRIANT
A poison which occasions a persistent delirium, or mentalaberration (as belladonna).
DELIRIFACIENT
Producing, or tending to produce, delirium.-- n.
DELIRIOUS
Having a delirium; wandering in mind; light-headed; insane;raving; wild; as, a delirious patient; delirious fancies.-- De*lir"i*ous*ly, adv.-- De*lir"i*ous*ness, n.
DELIRIUM
A state in which the thoughts, expressions, and actions arewild, irregular, and incoherent; mental aberration; a roving orwandering of the mind, -- usually dependent on a fever or some otherdisease, and so distinguished from mania, or madness.
DELIT
Delight. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DELITABLE
Delightful; delectable. [Obs.]
DELITESCENCE
The sudden disappearance of inflammation.
DELITESCENCY
Concealment; seclusion.The mental organization of the novelist must be characterized, tospeak craniologically, by an extraordinary development of the passionfor delitescency. Sir W. Scott.
DELITESCENT
Lying hid; concealed.
DELITIGATE
To chide; to rail heartily. [Obs.]
DELITIGATION
Chiding; brawl. [Obs.]
DELIVER
Free; nimble; sprightly; active. [Obs.]Wonderly deliver and great of strength. Chaucer.
DELIVERABLE
Capable of being, or about to be, delivered; necessary to bedelivered. Hale.
DELIVERANCE
Any fact or truth which is decisively attested or intuitivelyknown as a psychological or philosophical datum; as, the deliveranceof consciousness.
DELIVERESS
A female de [R.] Evelyn.
DELIVERLY
Actively; quickly; nimbly. [Obs.]Swim with your bodies, And carry it sweetly and deliverly. Beau. &Fl.
DELIVERNESS
Nimbleness; agility. [Obs.]
DELLA CRUSCA
A shortened form of Academia della Crusca, an academy inFlorescence, Italy, founded in the 16th century, especially forconversing the purity of the Italian language.
DELLACRUSCAN
Of or pertaining to the Accademia della Crusca in Florence. TheDellacruscan School, a name given in satire to a class of affectedEnglish writers, most of whom lived in Florence, about a. d. 1785.
DELOO
The duykerbok.
DELOUL
A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; theswift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik.
DELPH
Delftware.Five nothings in five plates of delph. Swift.
DELPHIAN
Delphic.
DELPHIC
Pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics,an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of LouisXIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini).
DELPHIN
A fatty substance contained in the oil of the dolphin and theporpoise; -- called also phocenin.
DELPHINE
Pertaining to the dolphin, a genus of fishes.
DELPHINIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, the dolphin; phocenic.Delphinic acid. (Chem.) See Valeric acid, under Valeric. [Obs.]
DELPHININE
A poisonous alkaloid extracted from the stavesacre (Delphiniumstaphisagria), as a colorless amorphous powder.
DELPHINOID
Pertaining to, or resembling, the dolphin.
DELPHINOIDEA
The division of Cetacea which comprises the dolphins,porpoises, and related forms.
DELPHINUS
A genus of Cetacea, including the dolphin. See Dolphin,
DELTA
A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (as, the delta ofthe Ganges, of the Nile, or of the Mississippi.
DELTA CONNECTION
One of the usual forms or methods for connecting apparatus to athree-phase circuit, the three corners of the delta or triangle, asdiagrammatically represented, being connected to the three wires ofthe supply circuit.
DELTA CURRENT
The current flowing through a delta connection.
DELTAFICATION
The formation of a delta or of deltas. [R.]
DELTAIC
Relating to, or like, a delta.
DELTHYRIS
A name formerly given to certain Silurian brachiopod shells ofthe genus Spirifer. Delthyris limestone (Geol.), one of the divisionsof the Upper Silurian rocks in New York.
DELTIC
Deltaic.
DELTIDIUM
The triangular space under the beak of many brachiopod shells.
DELTOHEDRON
A solid bounded by twelve quadrilateral faces. It is ahemihedral form of the isometric system, allied to the tetrahedron.
DELTOID
Shaped like the Greek Deltoid leaf (Bot.), a leaf in the formof a triangle with the stem inserted at the middle of the base.-- Deltoid muscle (Anat.), a triangular muscle in the shoulder whichserves to move the arm directly upward.
DELUDABLE
Capable of being deluded; liable to be imposed on gullible. SirT. Browne.
DELUDER
One who deludes; a deceiver; an impostor.
DELUNDUNG
An East Indian carnivorous mammal (Prionodon gracilis),resembling the civets, but without scent pouches. It is handsomelyspotted.
DELUSIONAL
Of or pertaining to delusions; as, delusional monomania.
DELUSIVE
Apt or fitted to delude; tending to mislead the mind;deceptive; beguiling; delusory; as, delusive arts; a delusive dream.Delusive and unsubstantial ideas. Whewell.-- De*lu"sive*ly, adv.-- De*lu"sive*ness, n.
DELUSORY
Delusive; fallacious. Glanvill.
DELVE
To dig or labor with a spade, or as with a spade; to labor as adrudge.Delve may I not: I shame to beg. Wyclif (Luke xvi. 3).
DELVER
One who digs, as with a spade.
DEMAGOG
Demagogue.
DEMAGOGISM
The practices of a demagogue.
DEMAGOGUE
A leader of the rabble; one who attempts to control themultitude by specious or deceitful arts; an unprincipled and factiousmob orator or political leader.
DEMAGOGY
Demagogism.
DEMAIN
See Demesne.
DEMAND
To call into court; to summon. Burrill.
DEMANDABLE
That may be demanded or claimed. "All sums demandable." Bacon.
DEMANDANT
One who demands; the plaintiff in a real action; any plaintiff.
DEMANDER
One who demands.
DEMANDRESS
A woman who demands.
DEMANTOID
A yellow-green, transparent variety of garnet found in theUrals. It is valued as a gem because of its brilliancy of luster,whence the name.
DEMARCATE
To mark by bounds; to set the limits of; to separate; todiscriminate. Wilkinson.
DEMARCATION
The act of marking, or of ascertaining and setting a limit;separation; distinction.The speculative line of demarcation, where obedience ought to end andresistance must begin, is faint, obscure, and not easily definable.Burke.
DEMARCH
March; walk; gait. [Obs.]
DEMARKATION
Same as Demarcation.
DEMATERIALIZE
To deprive of material or physical qualities orcharacteristics.Dematerializing matter by stripping if of everything which . . . hasdistinguished matter. Milman.
DEME
A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece),corresponding to a township. Jowett (Thucyd).
DEMEAN
Resources; means. [Obs.]You know How narrow our demeans are. Massinger.
DEMEANANCE
Demeanor. [Obs.] Skelton.
DEMEANURE
Behavior. [Obs.] Spenser.
DEMENCY
Dementia; loss of mental powers. See Insanity.
DEMENT
To deprive of reason; to make mad. [R.] Bale.
DEMENTATE
Deprived of reason.Arise, thou dementate sinner! Hammond.
DEMENTATION
The act of depriving of reason; madness. Whitlock.
DEMENTED
Insane; mad; of unsound mind.-- De*ment"ed*ness, n.
DEMENTIA
Insanity; madness; esp. that form which consists in weakness ortotal loss of thought and reason; mental imbecility; idiocy.
DEMEPHITIZE
To purify from mephitic.-- De*meph`i*ti*za"tion, n.
DEMERGE
To plunge down into; to sink; to immerse. [Obs.]The water in which it was demerged. Boyle.
DEMERIT
To deserve praise or blame.
DEMERSE
To immerse. [Obs.] Boyle.
DEMERSED
Situated or growing under water, as leaves; submersed.
DEMESMERIZE
To relieve from mesmeric influence. See Mesmerize.
DEMESNE
A lord's chief manor place, with that part of the landsbelonging thereto which has not been granted out in tenancy; a house,and the land adjoining, kept for the proprietor's own use. [Writtenalso demain.] Wharton's Law Dict. Burrill. Ancient demesne. (Eng.Law) See under Ancient.
DEMESNIAL
Of or pertaining to a demesne; of the nature of a demesne.
DEMI
See Demy, n.
DEMI-
A prefix, signifying half.
DEMI-ISLAND
Peninsula. [Obs.] Knolles.
DEMI-TASSE
A small cup for, or of, black coffee.
DEMIBASTION
A half bastion, or that part of a bastion consisting of oneface and one flank.
DEMIBRIGADE
A half brigade.
DEMICADENCE
An imperfect or half cadence, falling on the dominant insteadof on the key note.
DEMICANNON
A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from thirty tothirty-six pounds. Shak.
DEMICIRCLE
An instrument for measuring angles, in surveying, etc. Itresembles
DEMICULVERIN
A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from nine tothirteen pounds.
DEMIDEIFY
To deify in part. Cowper.
DEMIDEVIL
A half devil. Shak.
DEMIGOD
A half god, or an inferior deity; a fabulous hero, theoffspring of a deity and a mortal.
DEMIGODDESS
A female demigod.
DEMIGORGE
Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from theangle of the flank to the center of the bastion.
DEMIGRATE
To emigrate. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DEMIGRATION
Emigration. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DEMIGROAT
A half groat.
DEMIJOHN
A glass vessel or bottle with a large body and small neck,inclosed in wickerwork.
DEMILANCE
A light lance; a short spear; a half pike; also, a demilancer.
DEMILANCER
A soldier of light cavalry of the 16th century, who carried ademilance.
DEMILUNE
A work constructed beyond the main ditch of a fortress, and infront of the curtain between two bastions, intended to defend thecurtain; a ravelin. See Ravelin.
DEMIMAN
A half man. [R.] Knolles.
DEMIMONDE
Persons of doubtful reputation; esp., women who are kept asmistresses, though not public prostitutes; demireps. Literarydemimonde, writers of the lowest kind.
DEMINATURED
Having half the nature of another. [R.] Shak.
DEMIQUAVER
A note of half the length of the quaver; a semiquaver. [R.]
DEMIREP
A woman of doubtful reputation or suspected character; anadventuress. [Colloq.] De Quincey.
DEMISABILITY
The state of being demisable.
DEMISABLE
Capable of being leased; as, a demisable estate.
DEMISE
The conveyance or transfer of an estate, either in fee for lifeor for years, most commonly the latter. Bouvier.
DEMISEMIQUAVER
A short note, equal in time to the half of a semiquaver, or thethirty-second part of a whole note.
DEMISS
Cast down; humble; submissive. [Obs.]He down descended like a most demiss And abject thrall. Spenser.
DEMISSIVE
Downcast; submissive; humble. [R.]They pray with demissive eyelids. Lord (1630).
DEMISSLY
In a humble manner. [Obs.]
DEMISUIT
A suit of light armor covering less than the whole body, ashaving no protection for the legs below the things, no vizor to thehelmet, and the like.
DEMITONE
Semitone. [R.]
DEMIURGE
The chief magistrate in some of the Greek states.
DEMIURGIC
Pertaining to a demiurge; formative; creative. "Demiurgicpower." De Quincey.
DEMIVILL
A half-vill, consisting of five freemen or frankpledges.Blackstone.
DEMIVOLT
A half vault; one of the seven artificial motions of a horse,in which he raises his fore legs in a particular manner.
DEMIWOLF
A half wolf; a mongrel dog, between a dog and a wolf.
DEMOBILIZATION
The disorganization or disarming of troops which havepreviously been mobilized or called into active service; the changefrom a war footing to a peace footing.
DEMOBILIZE
To disorganize, or disband and send home, as troops which havebeen mobilized.
DEMOCRATICAL
Democratic.The democratical was democratically received. Algernon Sidney.
DEMOCRATICALLY
In a democratic manner.
DEMOCRATISM
The principles or spirit of a democracy. [R.]
DEMOCRATIST
A democrat. [R.] Burke.
DEMOCRATIZE
To render democratic.
DEMOCRATY
Democracy. [Obs.] Milton.
DEMOGORGON
, A mysterious, terrible, and evil divinity, regarded by someas the author of creation, by others as a great magician who wassupposed to command the spirits of the lower world. See Gorgon.Orcus and Ades, and the dreaded name Of Demogorgon. Milton.
DEMOGRAPHY
The study of races, as to births, marriages, mortality, health,etc.-- Dem`o*graph"ic, a.
DEMOISELLE
The Numidian crane (Antropoides virgo); -- so called on accountof the grace and symmetry of its form and movements.
DEMOLISH
To throw or pull down; to raze; to destroy the fabric of; topull to pieces; to ruin; as, to demolish an edifice, or a wall.I expected the fabric of my book would long since have beendemolished, and laid even with the ground. Tillotson.
DEMOLISHER
One who, or that which, demolishes; as, a demolisher of towns.
DEMOLISHMENT
Demolition.
DEMOLITION
The act of overthrowing, pulling down, or destroying a pile orstructure; destruction by violence; utter overthrow; -- opposed toconstruction; as, the demolition of a house, of military works, of atown, or of hopes.
DEMOLITIONIST
A demolisher. [R.] Carlyle.
DEMON
A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place betweenmen and deities in pagan mythology.The demon kind is of an inSydenham.
DEMONESS
A female demon.
DEMONETIZATION
The act of demonetizing, or the condition of being demonetized.
DEMONETIZE
To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money.They [gold mohurs] have been completely demonetized by the [EastIndia] Company. R. Cobden.
DEMONIAC
One of a sect of Anabaptists who maintain that the demons ordevils will finally be saved.
DEMONIACALLY
In a demoniacal manner.
DEMONIACISM
The state of being demoniac, or the practices of demoniacs.
DEMONIAL
Of or pertaining to a demon. [Obs.] Cudworth.
DEMONIAN
Relating to, or having the nature of, a demon. "Demonianspirits." Milton.
DEMONIANISM
The state of being possessed by a demon or by demons.
DEMONIASM
See Demonianism. [R.]
DEMONIC
Of or pertaining to a demon or to demons; demoniac. "Demonicambushes." Lowell.
DEMONISM
The belief in demons or false gods.The established theology of the heathen world . . . rested upon thebasis of demonism. Farmer.
DEMONIST
A believer in, or worshiper of, demons.
DEMONOCRACY
The power or government of demons.A demonocracy of unclean spirits. H. Taylor.
DEMONOGRAPHER
A demonologist. [R.] Am. Cyc.
DEMONOLATRY
The worship of demons.
DEMONOLOGER
One versed in demonology. R. North.
DEMONOLOGIST
One who writes on, or is versed in, demonology.
DEMONOLOGY
A treatise on demons; a supposititious science which treats ofdemons and their manifestations. Sir W. Scott.
DEMONOMAGY
Magic in which the aid of demons is invoked; black or infernalmagic. Bp. Hurd.
DEMONOMANIA
A form of madness in which the patient conceives himselfpossessed of devils.
DEMONOMIST
One in subjection to a demon, or to demons. [R.] Sir T.Herbert.
DEMONOMY
The dominion of demons. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.
DEMONRY
Demoniacal influence or possession. J. Baillie.
DEMONSHIP
The state of a demon. Mede.
DEMONSTRABILITY
The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrableness.
DEMONSTRABLENESS
The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrability.
DEMONSTRABLY
In a demonstrable manner; incontrovertibly; clearly.Cases that demonstrably concerned the public cause. Clarendon.
DEMONSTRANCE
Demonstration; proof. [Obs.] Holland.
DEMONSTRATE
To exhibit and explain (a dissection or other anatomicalpreparation).
DEMONSTRATER
See Demonstrator.
DEMONSTRATION
The exhibition and explanation of a dissection or otheranatomical preparation.
DEMONSTRATIVE
A demonstrative pronoun; as, "this" and "that" aredemonstratives.
DEMONSTRATIVELY
In a manner fitted to demonstrate; clearly; convincingly;forcibly.
DEMONSTRATIVENESS
The state or quality of being demonstrative.
DEMONSTRATOR
A teacher of practical anatomy.
DEMONSTRATORY
Tending to demonstrate; demonstrative. Johnson.
DEMORAGE
Demurrage. [Obs.] Pepys (1663).
DEMORALIZATION
The act of corrupting or subverting morals. Especially: The actof corrupting or subverting discipline, courage, hope, etc., or thestate of being corrupted or subverted in discipline, courage, etc.;as, the demoralization of an army or navy.
DEMORALIZE
To corrupt or undermine in morals; to destroy or lessen theeffect of moral principles on; to render corrupt or untrustworthy inmorals, in discipline, in courage, spirit, etc.; to weaken in spiritor efficiency.The demoralizing example of profligate power and prosperous crime.Walsh.The vices of the nobility had demoralized the army. Bancroft.
DEMOSTHENIC
Pertaining to, or in the style of, Demosthenes, the Grecianorator.
DEMOTE
To reduce to a lower grade, as in school.
DEMOTIC
Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common. Demoticalphabet or character, a form of writing used in Egypt after six orseven centuries before Christ, for books, deeds, and other suchwritings; a simplified form of the hieratic character; -- called alsoepistolographic character, and enchorial character. See Enchorial.
DEMOTICS
The department of knowledge relative to the care and culture ofthe people; sociology in its broadest sense; -- in librarycataloguing.
DEMOUNT
To dismount. [R.]
DEMOUNTABLE
Capable of being dismounted; -- said of a form of rim, for anautomobile wheel, which can be removed with its tire from the wheel.
DEMPNE
To damn; to condemn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEMULCE
To soothe; to mollify; to pacify; to soften. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.
DEMULCENT
Softening; mollifying; soothing; assuasive; as, oil isdemulcent.
DEMULSION
The act of soothing; that which soothes. Feltham.
DEMUR
To interpose a demurrer. See Demurrer, 2.
DEMURE
To look demurely. [Obs.] Shak.
DEMURELY
In a demure manner; soberly; gravely; -- now, commonly, with amere show of gravity or modesty.They . . . looked as demurely as they could; for 't was a hangingmatter to laugh unseasonably. Dryden.
DEMURENESS
The state of being demure; gravity; the show of gravity ormodesty.
DEMURITY
Demureness; also, one who is demure. Sir T. Browne.
DEMURRABLE
That may be demurred to. Stormonth.
DEMURRAL
Demur; delay in acting or deciding.The same causes of demurral existed which prevented British troopsfrom assisting in the expulsion of the French from Rome. Southey.
DEMURRER
A stop or pause by a party to an action, for the judgment ofthe court on the question, whether, assuming the truth of the matteralleged by the opposite party, it is sufficient in law to sustain theaction or defense, and hence whether the party resting is bound toanswer or proceed further. Demurrer to evidence, an exception takenby a party to the evidence offered by the opposite party, and anobjecting to proceed further, on the allegation that such evidence isnot sufficient in law to maintain the issue, and a reference to thecourt to determine the point. Bouvier.
DEMY
Pertaining to, or made of, the size of paper called demy; as, ademy book.
DEN
A narrow glen; a ravine; a dell. [Old Eng. & Scotch] Shak.
DENARCOTIZE
To deprive of narcotine; as, to denarcotize opium.-- De*nar`co*ti*za"tion, n.
DENARIUS
A Roman silver coin of the value of about fourteen cents; the"penny" of the New Testament; -- so called from being worthoriginally ten of the pieces called as.
DENARY
Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, ordecimal, scale.
DENATIONALIZATION
The or process of denationalizing.
DENATIONALIZE
To divest or deprive of national character or rights.Bonaparte's decree denationalizes, as he calls it, all ships thathave touched at a British port. Cobbett.An expatriated, denationalized race. G. Eliot.
DENATURE
To deprive of its natural qualities; change the nature of.
DENAY
To deny. [Obs.]That with great rage he stoutly doth denay. Spenser.
DENDRACHATE
Arborescent or dendritic agate.
DENDRIFORM
Resembling in structure a tree or shrub.
DENDRITE
A stone or mineral on or in which are branching figuresresembling shrubs or trees, produced by a foreign mineral, usually anoxide of manganese, as in the moss agate; also, a crystallizedmineral having an arborescent form, e. g., gold or silver; anarborization.
DENDROCOELA
A division of the Turbellaria in which the digestive cavitygives off lateral branches, which are often divided into smallerbranchlets.
DENDROLITE
A petrified or fossil shrub, plant, or part of a plant.
DENDROLOGIST
One versed in the natural history of trees.
DENDROLOGOUS
Relating to dendrology.
DENDROLOGY
A discourse or treatise on trees; the natural history of trees.
DENDROMETER
An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees.
DENEGATE
To deny. [Obs.]
DENEGATION
Denial. [Obs.]
DENGUE
A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneouseruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those ofrheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever. It occurs in India,Egypt, the West Indies, etc., is of short duration, and rarely fatal.
DENIABLE
Capable of being, or liable to be, denied.
DENIANCE
Denial. [Obs.] E. Hall.
DENIER
One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or ofChrist.
DENIGRATOR
One who, or that which, blackens.
DENIM
A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc.
DENITRATION
A disengaging, or removal, of nitric acid.
DENITRIFICATION
The act or process of freeing from nitrogen; also, thecondition resulting from the removal of nitrogen.
DENITRIFY
To deprive of, or free from, nitrogen.
DENIZATION
The act of making one a denizen or adopted citizen;naturalization. Hallam.
DENIZE
To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; tonaturalize. [Obs.]There was a private act made for denizing the children of RichardHillStrype.
DENIZENATION
Denization; denizening. Abbott.
DENIZENIZE
To constitute (one) a denizen; to denizen. Abbott.
DENIZENSHIP
State of being a denizen.
DENMARK SATIN
See under Satin.
DENNET
A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind ofgig. ("The term and vehicle common about 1825." Latham.)
DENOMINABLE
Capable of being denominated or named. Sir T. Browne.
DENOMINATE
To give a name to; to characterize by an epithet; to entitle;to name; to designate.Passions commonly denominating selfish. Hume.
DENOMINATIONAL
Pertaining to a denomination, especially to a sect or society."Denominational differences." Buckle.
DENOMINATIONALISM
A denominational or class spirit or policy; devotion to theinterests of a sect or denomination.
DENOMINATIONALIST
One imbued with a denominational spirit. The Century.
DENOMINATIONALLY
In a denominational manner; by denomination or sect.
DENOMINATIVE
Connotative; as, a denominative name.
DENOMINATIVELY
By denomination.
DENOMINATOR
That number placed below the line in vulgar fractions whichshows into how many parts the integer or unit is divided.
DENOTABLE
Capable of being denoted or marked. Sir T. Browne.
DENOTATE
To mark off; to denote. [Archaic]These terms denotate a longer time. Burton.What things should be denotated and signified by the color. Urquhart.
DENOTATION
The marking off or separation of anything. Hammond.
DENOTATIVE
Having power to denote; designating or marking off.Proper names are preรซminently denotative; telling us that such asobject has such a term to denote it, but telling us nothing as to anysingle attribute. Latham.
DENOTEMENT
Sign; indication. [R.]
DENOTIVE
Serving to denote.
DENOUNCEMENT
Solemn, official, or menacing announcement; denunciation.[Archaic]False is the reply of Cain, upon the denouncement of his curse. SirT. Browne.
DENOUNCER
One who denounces, or declares, as a menace.Here comes the sad denouncer of my fate. Dryden.
DENSELY
In a dense, compact manner.
DENSENESS
The quality of being dense; density.
DENSIMETER
An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity or densityof a substance.
DENSITY
The ratio of mass, or quantity of matter, to bulk or volume,esp. as compared with the mass and volume of a portion of somesubstance used as a standard.
DENT
To make a dent upon; to indent.The houses dented with bullets. Macaulay.
DENTAL
Formed by the aid of the teeth; -- said of certainarticulations and the letters representing them; as, d t are dentalletters. Dental formula (Zoรถl.), a brief notation used by zoรถlogiststo denote the number and kind of teeth of a mammal.-- Dental surgeon, a dentist.
DENTALISM
The quality of being formed by the aid of the teeth.
DENTALIUM
A genus of marine mollusks belonging to the Scaphopoda, havinga tubular conical shell.
DENTARY
Pertaining to, or bearing, teeth.-- n.
DENTATE-CILIATE
Having the margin dentate and also ciliate or fringed withhairs.
DENTATE-SINUATE
Having a form intermediate between dentate and sinuate.
DENTATELY
In a dentate or toothed manner; as, dentately ciliated, etc.
DENTATION
Formation of teeth; toothed form. [R.]How did it [a bill] get its barb, its dentation Paley.
DENTED
Indented; impressed with little hollows.
DENTEL
Same as Dentil.
DENTELLE
An ornamental tooling like lace. Knight.
DENTELLI
Modillions. Spectator.
DENTEX
An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentexvulgaris) of the family Percidรฆ.
DENTICETE
The division of Cetacea in which the teeth are developed,including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.
DENTICLE
A small tooth or projecting point.
DENTICULATION
A diminutive tooth; a denticle.
DENTIFEROUS
Bearing teeth; dentigerous.
DENTIFORM
Having the form of a tooth or of teeth; tooth-shaped.
DENTIFRICE
A powder or other substance to be used in cleaning the teeth;tooth powder.
DENTIGEROUS
Bearing teeth or toothlike structures.
DENTIL
A small square block or projection in cornices, a number ofwhich are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in theIonic, Corinthian, and Composite orders.
DENTILABIAL
Formed by the teeth and the lips, or representing a sound soformed.-- n.
DENTILATED
Toothed.
DENTILATION
Dentition.
DENTILAVE
A wash for cleaning the teeth.
DENTILE
A small tooth, like that of a saw.
DENTILINGUAL
Produced by applying the tongue to the teeth or to the gums; orrepresenting a sound so formed.-- n.
DENTILOQUIST
One who speaks through the teeth, that is, with the teethclosed.
DENTILOQUY
The habit or practice of speaking through the teeth, or withthem closed.
DENTINAL
Of or pertaining to dentine.
DENTINE
The dense calcified substance of which teeth are largelycomposed. It contains less animal matter than bone, and in the teethof man is situated beneath the enamel.
DENTIPHONE
An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound tothe auditory nerve; an audiphone. Knight.
DENTIROSTER
A dentirostral bird.
DENTIROSTRAL
Having a toothed bill; -- applied to a group of passerinebirds, having the bill notched, and feeding chiefly on insects, asthe shrikes and vireos. See Illust. (N) under Beak.
DENTIROSTRATE
Dentirostral.
DENTISCALP
An instrument for scraping the teeth.
DENTIST
One whose business it is to clean, extract, or repair naturalteeth, and to make and insert artificial ones; a dental surgeon.
DENTISTRY
The art or profession of a dentist; dental surgery.
DENTITION
The system of teeth peculiar to an animal.
DENTIZE
To breed or cut new teeth. [R.]The old countess . . . did dentize twice or thrice. Bacon.
DENTOID
Shaped like a tooth; tooth-shaped.
DENTOLINGUAL
Dentilingual.
DENTURE
An artificial tooth, block, or set of teeth.
DENUDATE
To denude. [Obs. or R.]
DENUDATION
The laying bare of rocks by the washing away of the overlyingearth, etc.; or the excavation and removal of them by the action ofrunning water.
DENUDE
To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; todivest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands.
DENUNCIATE
To denounce; to condemn publicly or solemnly. [R.]To denunciate this new work. Burke.
DENUNCIATIVE
Same as Denunciatory. Farrar.
DENUNCIATOR
One who denounces, publishes, or proclaims, especially intendedor coming evil; one who threatens or accuses.
DENUNCIATORY
Characterized by or containing a denunciation; minatory;accusing; threatening; as, severe and denunciatory language.
DENUTRITION
The opposition of nutrition; the failure of nutrition causingthe breaking down of tissue.
DENY
To answer inThen Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. Gen.xviii. 15.
DENYINGLY
In the manner of one denies a request. Tennyson.
DEOBSTRUCT
To remove obstructions or impediments in; to clear fromanything that hinders the passage of fluids; as, to deobstruct thepores or lacteals. Arbuthnot.
DEOBSTRUENT
Removing obstructions; having power to clear or open thenatural ducts of the fluids and secretions of the body; aperient.-- n.
DEODAND
A personal chattel which had caused the death of a person, andfor that reason was given to God, that is, forfeited to the crown, tobe applied to pious uses, and distributed in alms by the highalmoner. Thus, if a cart ran over a man and killed him, it wasforfeited as a deodand.
DEODAR
A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara), growing in India, highlyvalued for its size and beauty as well as for its timber, and alsogrown in England as an ornamental tree.
DEODATE
A gift or offering to God. [Obs.]Wherein that blessed widow's deodate was laid up. Hooker.
DEODORANT
A deodorizer.
DEODORIZATION
The act of depriving of odor, especially of offensive odorsresulting from impurities.
DEODORIZE
To deprive of odor, especially of such as results fromimpurities.
DEODORIZER
He who, or that which, deodorizes; esp., an agent that destroysoffensive odors.
DEONERATE
To unload; to disburden. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DEONTOLOGICAL
Pertaining to deontology.
DEONTOLOGIST
One versed in deontology.
DEONTOLOGY
The science relat J. Bentham.
DEOPERCULATE
Having the lid removed; -- said of the capsules of mosses.
DEOPPILATE
To free from obstructions; to clear a passage through. [Obs.]Boyle.
DEOPPILATION
Removal of whatever stops up the passages. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
DEOPPILATIVE
Deobstruent; aperient. [Obs.] Harvey.
DEORDINATION
Disorder; dissoluteness. [Obs.]Excess of rideordination. Jer. Taylor.
DEOSCULATE
To kiss warmly. [Obs.] -- De*os`cu*la"tion, n. [Obs.]
DEOXIDATE
To deoxidize.
DEOXIDATION
The act or process of reducing from the state of an oxide.
DEOXIDIZATION
Deoxidation.
DEOXIDIZE
To deprive of oxygen; to reduce from the state of an oxide.
DEOXIDIZER
That which removes oxygen; hence, a reducing agent; as, nascenthydrogen is a deoxidizer.
DEOXYGENATE
To deoxidize. [Obs.]
DEOXYGENATION
The act or operation of depriving of oxygen.
DEOXYGENIZE
To deoxidize.
DEPAINT
Painted. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEPAINTER
One who depaints. [Obs.]
DEPARDIEUX
In God's name; certainly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEPARTABLE
Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon.
DEPARTMENT STORE
A store keeping a great variety of goods which are arranged inseveral departments, esp. one with dry goods as the principal stock.
DEPARTMENTAL
Pertaining to a department or division. Burke.
DEPARTURE
The desertion by a party to any pleading of the ground taken byhim in his last antecedent pleading, and the adoption of another.Bouvier.
DEPASCENT
Feeding. [R.]
DEPASTURE
To pasture; to feed; to graze; also, to use for pasture. [R.]Cattle, to graze and departure in his grounds. Blackstone.A right to cut wood upon or departure land. Washburn.
DEPATRIATE
To withdraw, or cause to withdraw, from one's country; tobanish. [Obs.]A subject born in any state May, if he please, depatriate. Mason.
DEPAUPERATE
To make poor; to impoverish.Liming does not depauperate; the ground will last long, and bearlarge grain. Mortimer.Humility of mind which depauperates the spirit. Jer. Taylor.
DEPAUPERIZE
To free from paupers; to rescue from poverty. [R.]
DEPEACH
To discharge. [Obs.]As soon as the party . . . before our justices shall be depeached.Hakluyt.
DEPECTIBLE
Tough; thick; capable of extension. [Obs.]Some bodies are of a more depectible nature than oil. Bacon.
DEPECULATION
A robbing or embezzlement. [Obs.]Depeculation of the public treasure. Hobbes.
DEPEINCT
To paint. [Obs.] Spenser.
DEPENDABLE
Worthy of being depended on; trustworthy. "Dependablefriendships." Pope.
DEPENDENTLY
In a dependent manner.
DEPENDER
One who depends; a dependent.
DEPENDINGLY
As having dependence. Hale.
DEPEOPLE
To depopulate. [Obs.]
DEPERDIT
That which is lost or destroyed. [R.] Paley.
DEPERDITELY
, adv. Hopelessly; despairingly; in the manner of one ruined;as, deperditely wicked. [Archaic]
DEPERDITION
Loss; destruction. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne.
DEPERTIBLE
Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon.
DEPHASE
To put out of phase, as two parts of a single alternatingcurrent.
DEPHLEGM
To rid of phlegm or water; to dephlegmate. [Obs.] Boyle.
DEPHLEGMATE
To deprive of superabundant water, as by evaporation ordistillation; to clear of aqueous matter; to rectify; -- used ofspirits and acids.
DEPHLEGMATION
The operation of separating water from spirits and acids, byevaporation or repeated distillation; -- called also concentration,especially when acids are the subject of it. [Obs.]
DEPHLEGMATOR
An instrument or apparatus in which water is separated byevaporation or distillation; the part of a distilling apparatus inwhich the separation of the vapors is effected.
DEPHLEGMATORY
Pertaining to, or producing, dephlegmation.
DEPHLEGMEDNESS
A state of being freed from water. [Obs.] Boyle.
DEPHLOGISTICCATE
To deprive of phlogiston, or the supposed principle ofinflammability. Priestley. Dephlogisticated air, oxygen gas; -- socalled by Dr. Priestly and others of his time.-- De`phlo*gis`ti*ca"tion, n.
DEPHOSPHORIZATION
The act of freeing from phosphorous.
DEPICT
Depicted. Lydgate.
DEPICTION
A painting or depicting; a representation.
DEPICTURE
To make a picture of; to paint; to picture; to depict.Several persons were depictured in caricature. Fielding.
DEPILATE
To strip of hair; to husk. Venner.
DEPILATION
Act of pulling out or removing the hair; unhairing. Dryden.
DEPILATORY
Having the quality or power of removing hair.-- n.
DEPILOUS
Hairless. Sir t. Browne.
DEPLANATE
Flattened; made level or even.
DEPLANT
To take up (plants); to transplant. [R.]
DEPLANTATION
Act of taking up plants from beds.
DEPLETE
To empty or unload, as the vessels of human system, bybloodletting or by medicine. Copland.
DEPLETION
the act or process of diminishing the quantity of fluid in thevessels by bloodletting or otherwise; also excessive evacuation, asin severe diarrhea.
DEPLETIVE
Able or fitted to deplete.-- n.
DEPLETORY
Serving to deplete.
DEPLICATION
An unfolding, untwisting, or unplaiting. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
DEPLOITATION
Same as Exploitation.
DEPLORABILITY
Deplorableness. Stormonth.
DEPLORABLE
Worthy of being deplored or lamented; lamentable; causinggrief; hence, sad; calamitous; grievous; wretched; as, life's evilsare deplorable.Individual sufferers are in a much more deplorable conditious thanany others. Burke.
DEPLORABLENESS
State of being deplorable.
DEPLORABLY
In a deplorable manner.
DEPLORATE
Deplorable. [Obs.]A more deplorate estate. Baker.
DEPLORATION
The act of deploring or lamenting; lamentation. Speed.
DEPLORE
To lament. Gray.
DEPLOREDLY
Lamentably.
DEPLOREDNESS
The state of being deplored or deplorable. [R.] Bp. Hail.
DEPLOREMENT
Deploration. [Obs.]
DEPLORER
One who deplores.
DEPLORINGLY
In a deploring manner.
DEPLOY
To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops) insuch a way that they shall display a wider front and less depth; --the reverse of ploy; as, to deploy a column of troops into line ofbattle.
DEPLUMATE
Destitute or deprived of features; deplumed.
DEPLUMATION
A disease of the eyelids, attended with loss of the eyelashes.Thomas.
DEPOLARIZATION
The act of depriving of polarity, or the result of such action;reduction to an unpolarized condition. Depolarization of light(Opt.), a change in the plane of polarization of rays, especially bya crystalline medium, such that the light which had been extinguishedby the analyzer reappears as if the polarization had been anulled.The word is inappropriate, as the ray does not return to theunpolarized condition.
DEPOLARIZE
To deprive of polarity; to reduce to an unpolarized condition.
DEPOLARIZER
A substance used to prevent polarization, as upon the negativeplate of a voltaic battery.
DEPOLISH
To remove the polish or glaze from.
DEPOLISHING
The process of removing the vitreous glaze from porcelain,leaving the dull luster of the surface of ivory porcelian. Knight.
DEPONE
To testify under oath; to depose; to bear witness. [AScotticism]The fairy Glorians, whose credibility on this point can not be calledin question, depones to the confinement of Merlin in a tree. Dunlop.
DEPONENT
One who deposes or testifies under oath; one who givesevidence; usually, one who testifies in writing.
DEPOPULACY
Depopulation; destruction of population. [R.] Chapman.
DEPOPULATE
To deprive of inhabitants, whether by death or by expulsion; toreduce greatly the populousness of; to dispeople; to unpeople.Where is this viper, That would depopulate the city Shak.
DEPOPULATION
The act of depopulating, or condition of being depopulated;destruction or explusion of inhabitants.The desolation and depopulation [of St.Quentin] were now complete.Motley.
DEPOPULATOR
One who depopulates; a dispeopler.
DEPORT
Behavior; carrige; demeanor; deportment. [Obs.] "Goddesslikedeport." Milton.
DEPORTATION
The act of deporting or exiling, or the state of beingdeported; banishment; transportation.In their deportations, they had often the favor of their conquerors.Atterbury.
DEPORTMENT
Manner of deporting or demeaning one's self; manner of acting;conduct; carrige; especially, manner of acting with respect to thecourtesies and duties of life; behavior; demeanor; bearing.The gravity of his deportment carried him safe through manydifficulties. Swift.
DEPORTURE
Deportment. [Obs.]Stately port and majestical deporture. Speed.
DEPOSABLE
Capable of being deposed or deprived of office. Howell.
DEPOSAL
The act of deposing from office; a removal from the throne.Fox.
DEPOSE
To bear witness; to testify under oath; to make deposition.Then, seeing't was he that made you to despose, Your oath, my lord,is vain and frivolous. Shak.
DEPOSIT
A natural occurrence of a useful mineral under the conditionsto invite exploitation. Raymond.
DEPOSITARY
One to whom goods are bailed, to be kept for the bailor withouta recompense. Kent.
DEPOSITION
The act of laying down one's testimony in writing; also,testimony laid or taken down in writting, under oath or affirmation,befor some competent officer, and in reply to interrogatories andcross-interrogatories.
DEPOSITOR
One who makes a deposit, especially of money in bank; -- thecorrelative of depository.
DEPOSITUM
Deposit.
DEPOSITURE
The act of depositing; deposition. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DEPPER
Deeper. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEPRAVATION
Change for the worse; deterioration; morbid perversion.
DEPRAVEDLY
In a depraved manner.
DEPRAVEDNESS
Depravity. Hammond.
DEPRAVEMENT
Depravity. [Obs.] Milton.
DEPRAVER
One who deprave or corrupts.
DEPRAVINGLY
In a depraving manner.
DEPRAVITY
The stae of being depraved or corrupted; a vitiated state ofmoral character; general badness of character; wickedness of mind orheart; absence of religious feeling and principle. Total depravity.See Original sin, and Calvinism.
DEPRECABLE
That may or should be deprecated. Paley.
DEPRECATE
To pray against, as an evil; to seek to avert by player; todesire the removal of; to seek deliverance from; to express deepregret for; to disapprove of strongly.His purpose was deprecated by all round him, and he was withdifficulty induced to adandon it. Sir W. Scott.
DEPRECATINGLY
In a deprecating manner.
DEPRECATIVE
Serving to deprecate; deprecatory.-- Dep"re*ca*tive*ly, adv.
DEPRECATOR
One who deprecates.
DEPRECATORY
Serving to deprecate; tending to remove or avert evil byprayer; apologetic.Humble and deprecatory letters. Bacon.
DEPRECIATE
To lessen in price or estimated value; to lower the worth of;to represent as of little value or claim to esteem; to undervalue.Addison.Which . . . some over-severe phoilosophers may look uponfastidiously, or undervalue and depreciate. Cudworth.To prove that the Americans ought not to be free, we are obliged todepreciate the value of freedom itself. Burke.
DEPRECIATIVE
Tending, or intended, to depreciate; expressing depreciation;undervaluing.-- De*pre"ci*a`tive*ly, adv.
DEPRECIATOR
One who depreciates.
DEPRECIATORY
Tending to depreciate; undervaluing; depreciative.
DEPREDABLE
Liable to depredation. [Obs.] "Made less depredable." Bacon.
DEPREDATE
To subject to plunder and pillage; to despoil; to lay waste; toprey upon.It makes the substance of the body . . . less apt to be consumed anddepredated by the spirits. Bacon.
DEPREDATION
The act of depredating, or the state of being depredated; theact of despoiling or making inroads; as, the sea often makesdepredation on the land.
DEPREDATOR
One who plunders or pillages; a spoiler; a robber.
DEPREDATORY
Tending or designed to depredate; characterized by depredation;plundering; as, a depredatory incursion.
DEPREDICATE
To proclaim; to celebrate. [R.]
DEPREHENSIBLE
That may be caught or discovered; apprehensible. [Obs.] Petty.-- Dep`re*hen"si*ble*ness, n. [Obs.]
DEPREHENSION
A catching; discovery. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DEPRESS
To reduce (an equation) in a lower degree. To depress the pole(Naut.), to cause the sidereal pole to appear lower or nearer thehorizon, as by sailing toward the equator.
DEPRESSANT
An agent or remedy which lowers the vital powers.
DEPRESSED
Having the vertical diameter shorter than the horizontal ortransverse; -- said of the bodies of animals, or of parts of thebodies.
DEPRESSINGLY
In a depressing manner.
DEPRESSION
The angular distance of a celestial object below the horizon.
DEPRESSIVE
Able or tending to depress or cast down.-- De*press"ive*ness, n.
DEPRESSOMOTOR
Depressing or diminishing the capacity for movement, asdepressomotor nerves, which lower or inhibit muscular activity.-- n.
DEPRESSOR
A muscle that depresses or tends to draw down a part. Depressornerve (Physiol.), a nerve which lowers the activity of an organ; as,the depressor nerve of the heart.
DEPRIMENT
Serving to depress. [R.] "Depriment muscles." Derham.
DEPRISURE
Low estimation; disesteem; contempt. [Obs.]
DEPRIVABLE
Capable of being, or liable to be, deprived; liable to bedeposed.Kings of Spain . . . deprivable for their tyrannies. Prynne.
DEPRIVATION
the taking away from a clergyman his benefice, or otherspiritual promotion or dignity.
DEPRIVEMENT
Deprivation. [R.]
DEPRIVER
One who, or that which, deprives.
DEPROSTRATE
Fully prostrate; humble; low; rude. [Obs.]How may weak mortal ever hope to file His unsmooth tongue, and hisdeprostrate style. G. Fletcher.
DEPROVINCIALIZE
To divest of provincial quality or characteristics.
DEPTH
The number of simple elements which an abstract conception ornotion includes; the comprehension or content.
DEPTHEN
To deepen. [Obs.]
DEPUCELATE
To deflour; to deprive of virginity. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEPUDICATE
To deflour; to dishonor. [Obs.]
DEPULSE
To drive away. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DEPULSION
A driving or thrusting away. [R.] Speed.
DEPULSORY
Driving or thrusting away; averting. [R.] Holland.
DEPURANT
Depurative.
DEPURATE
Depurated; cleansed; freed from impurities. Boyle.
DEPURATION
The act or process of depurating or freeing from foreign orimpure matter, as a liquid or wound.
DEPURATIVE
Purifying the blood or the humors; depuratory.-- n.
DEPURATOR
One who, or that which, cleanses.
DEPURATORY
Depurating; tending to depurate or cleanse; depurative.
DEPURE
To depurate; to purify. [Obs.]He shall first be depured and cleansed before that he shall be laidup for pure gold in the treasures of God. Sir T. More.
DEPURGATORY
Serving to purge; tending to cleanse or purify. [Obs.]Cotgrave.
DEPURITION
See Depuration.
DEPUTABLE
Fit to be deputed; suitable to act as a deputy. Carlyle.
DEPUTATOR
One who deputes, or makes a deputation. [R.] Locke.
DEPUTE
A person deputed; a deputy. [Scot.]
DEPUTIZE
To appoint as one's deputy; to empower to act in one's stead;to depute.
DEQUANTITATE
To diminish the quantity of; to disquantity. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
DEQUEEN
To remove the queen from (a hive of bees).
DERACINATE
To pluck up by the roots; to extirpate. [R.]While that the colter rusts That should deracinate such savagery.Shak.
DERACINATION
The act of pulling up by the roots; eradication. [R.]
DERAIL
To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as alocomotive. Lardner.
DERAILMENT
The act of going off, or the state of being off, the rails of arailroad.
DERANGED
Disordered; especially, disordered in mind; crazy; insane.The story of a poor deranged parish lad. Lamb.
DERANGEMENT
The act of deranging or putting out of order, or the state ofbeing deranged; disarrangement; disorder; confusion; especially,mental disorder; insanity.
DERANGER
One who deranges.
DERAY
Disorder; merriment. [Obs.]
DERBIO
A large European food fish (Lichia glauca).
DERBYSHIRE SPAR
A massive variety of fluor spar, found in Derbyshire, England,and wrought into vases and other ornamental work.
DERDOING
Doing daring or chivalrous deeds. [Obs.] "In derdoing arms."Spenser.
DERE
To hurt; to harm; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DERECHO
A straight wind without apparent cyclonic tendency, usuallyaccompanied with rain and often destructive, common in the prairieregions of the United States.
DERELICTION
A retiring of the sea, occasioning a change of high-water mark,whereby land is gained.
DERELIGIONIZE
To make irreligious; to turn from religion. [R.]He would dereligionize men beyond all others. De Quincey.
DERELING
Darling. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DERF
Strong; powerful; fierce. [Obs.] -- Derf"ly, adv. [Obs.]
DERIDE
To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn toridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at.And the Pharisees, also, . . . derided him. Luke xvi. 14.Sport that wrinkled Care derides. And Laughter holding both hissides. Milton.
DERIDER
One who derides, or laughs at, another in contempt; a mocker; ascoffer.
DERIDINGLY
By way of derision or mockery.
DERISIVE
Expressing, serving for, or characterized by, derision."Derisive taunts." Pope.-- De*ri"sive*ly, adv.-- De*ri"sive*ness, n.
DERISORY
Derisive; mocking. Shaftesbury.
DERIVABLE
That can be derived; obtainable by transmission; capable ofbeing known by inference, as from premises or data; capable of beingtraced, as from a radical; as, income is derivable from varioussources.All honor derivable upon me. South.The exquisite pleasure derivable from the true and beautifulrelations of domestic life. H. G. Bell.The argument derivable from the doxologies. J. H. Newman.
DERIVABLY
By derivation.
DERIVAL
Derivation. [R.]The derival of e from a. Earle.
DERIVATE
Derived; derivative. [R.] H. Taylor.-- n.
DERIVATION
The operation of deducing one function from another accordingto some fixed law, called the law of derivation, as the ofdifferentiation or of integration.
DERIVATIONAL
Relating to derivation. Earle.
DERIVATIVE
Obtained by derivation; derived; not radical, original, orfundamental; originating, deduced, or formed from something else;secondary; as, a derivative conveyance; a derivative word. Derivativecirculation, a modification of the circulation found in some parts ofthe body, in which the arteries empty directly into the veins withoutthe interposition of capillaries. Flint.-- De*riv"a*tive*ly, adv.-- De*riv"a*tive*ness, n.
DERIVE
To obtain one substance from another by actual or theoreticalsubstitution; as, to derive an organic acid from its correspondinghydrocarbon.
DERIVEMENT
That which is derived; deduction; inference. [Obs.]I offer these derivements from these subjects. W. Montagu.
DERIVER
One who derives.
DERK
Dark. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DERM
See Dermis.
DERMA
See Dermis.
DERMAL
Pertaining to the dermis or true skin.
DERMATITIS
Inflammation of the skin.
DERMATOGEN
Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a formingcondition.
DERMATOGRAPHY
An anatomical description of, or treatise on, the skin.
DERMATOID
Resembling
DERMATOLOGIST
One who discourses on the skin and its diseases; one versed indermatology.
DERMATOLOGY
The science which treats of the skin, its structure, functions,and diseases.
DERMATOPATHIC
Of or pertaining to skin diseases, or their cure.
DERMATOPHYTE
A vegetable parasite, infesting the skin.
DERMESTES
A genus of coleopterous insects, the larvรฆ of which feed animalsubstances. They are very destructive to dries meats, skins, woolens,and furs. The most common species is D. lardarius, known as the baconbeetle.
DERMESTOID
Pertaining to or resembling the genus Dermestes.The carpet beetle, called the buffalo moth, is a dermestoid beetle.Pop. Sci. Monthly.
DERMIC
Pertaining to the dermis; dermal.Underneath each nail the deep or dermic layer of the integument ispeculiarly modified. Huxley.Dermic remedies (Med.), such as act through the skin.
DERMIS
The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin orepidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, andenderon. See Skin, and Illust. in Appendix.
DERMOBRANCHIATA
A group of nudibranch mollusks without special gills.
DERMOBRANCHIATE
Having the skin modified to serve as a gill.
DERMOHAEMAL
Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and hรฆmalstructures; as, the dermohรฆmal spines or ventral fin rays of fishes.
DERMOID
Same as Dermatoid. Dermoid cyst (Med.), a cyst containing skin,or structures connected with skin, such as hair.
DERMONEURAL
Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and neuralstructures; as, the dermoneural spines or dorsal fin rays of fishes.Owen.
DERMOPATHIC
Dermatopathic.
DERMOPHYTE
A dermatophyte.
DERMOPTERA
The division of insects which includes the earwigs(Forticulidรฆ).
DERMOPTERAN
An insect which has the anterior pair of wings coriaceous, anddoes not use them in flight, as the earwig.
DERMOPTERI
Same as Dermopterygii.
DERMOPTERYGII
A group of fishlike animals including the Marsipobranchiata andLeptocardia.
DERMOSKELETON
See Exoskeleton.
DERMOSTOSIS
Ossification of the dermis.
DERN
A gatepost or doorpost. [Local Eng.] C. Kingsley.
DERNE
To hide; to skulk. [Scot.]He at length escaped them by derning himself in a foxearth. H.Miller.
DERNFUL
Secret; hence, lonely; sad; mournful. [Obs.] "Dernful noise."Spenser.
DERNIER
Last; final. Dernier ressort ( Etym: [F.], last resort orexpedient.
DERNLY
Secretly; grievously; mournfully. [Obs.] Spenser.
DEROGANT
Derogatory. [R.] T. Adams.
DEROGATE
Diminished in value; dishonored; degraded. [R.] Shak.
DEROGATELY
In a derogatory manner.
DEROGATION
An alteration of, or subtraction from, a contract for a sale ofstocks.
DEROGATIVE
Derogatory.-- De*rog"a*tive*ly, adv. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
DEROGATOR
A detractor.
DEROGATORILY
In a derogatory manner; disparagingly. Aubrey.
DEROGATORINESS
Quality of being derogatory.
DEROGATORY
Tending to derogate, or lessen in value; expressing derogation;detracting; injurious; -- with from to, or unto.Acts of Parliament derogatory from the power of subsequentParliaments bind not. Blackstone.His language was severely censured by some of his brother peers asderogatory to their other. Macaulay.Derogatory clause in a testament (Law), a sentence of secretcharacter inserted by the testator alone, of which he reserves theknowledge to himself, with a condition that no will he may makethereafter shall be valid, unless this clause is inserted word forword; -- a precaution to guard against later wills extorted byviolence, or obtained by suggestion.
DEROTREMATA
The tribe of aquatic Amphibia which includes Amphiuma,Menopoma, etc. They have permanent gill openings, but no externalgills; -- called also Cryptobranchiata. [Written also Derotrema.]
DERRE
Dearer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DERRICK
A mast, spar, or tall frame, supported at the top by stays orguys, with suitable tackle for hoisting heavy weights, as stones inbuilding. Derrick crane, a combination of the derrick and the crane,having facility for hoisting and also for swinging the loadhorizontally.
DERRING
Daring or warlike. [Obs.]Drad for his derring doe and bloody deed. Spenser.
DERRINGER
A kind of short-barreled pocket pistol, of very large caliber,often carrying a half-ounce ball.
DERTH
Dearth; scarcity. [Obs.] Spenser.
DERTROTHECA
The horny covering of the end of the bill of birds.
DERWORTH
Precious. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
DESCANTER
One who descants.
DESCEND
To move toward the south, or to the southward.
DESCENDANT
Descendent.
DESCENDENT
Descending; falling; proceeding from an ancestor or source.More than mortal grace Speaks thee descendent of ethereal race. Pope.
DESCENDER
One who descends.
DESCENDIBILITY
The quality of being descendible; capability of beingtransmitted from ancestors; as, the descendibility of an estate.
DESCENDING
Of or pertaining to descent; moving downwards. Descendingconstellations or signs (Astron.), those through which the planetsdescent toward the south.-- Descending node (Astron.), that point in a planet's orbit whereit intersects the ecliptic in passing southward.-- Descending series (Math.), a series in which each term isnumerically smaller than the preceding one; also, a series arrangedaccording to descending powers of a quantity.
DESCENDINGLY
In a descending manner.
DESCENSION
The act of going downward; descent; falling or sinking;declension; degradation. Oblique descension (Astron.), the degree orarc of the equator which descends, with a celestial object, below thehorizon of an oblique sphere.-- Right descension, the degree or arc of the equator which descendsbelow the horizon of a right sphere at the same time with the object.[Obs.]
DESCENSIONAL
Pertaining to descension. Johnson.
DESCENSIVE
Tending to descend; tending downwards; descending. Smart.
DESCENSORY
A vessel used in alchemy to extract oils.
DESCENT
Transmission of an estate by inheritance, usually, but notnecessarily, in the descending line; title to inherit an estate byreason of consanguinity. Abbott.
DESCRIBABLE
That can be described; capable of description.
DESCRIBE
To use the faculty of describing; to give a description; as,Milton describes with uncommon force and beauty.
DESCRIBENT
Same as Generatrix.
DESCRIBER
One who describes.
DESCRIER
One who descries.
DESCRIPTIVE
Tending to describe; having the quality of representing;containing description; as, a descriptive figure; a descriptivephrase; a descriptive narration; a story descriptive of the age.Descriptive anatomy, that part of anatomy which treats of the formsand relations of parts, but not of their textures.-- Descriptive geometry, that branch of geometry. which treats ofthe graphic solution of problems involving three dimensions, by meansof projections upon auxiliary planes. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ) --De*scrip"tive*ly, adv.-- De*scrip"tive*ness, n.
DESCRIVE
To describe. [Obs.] Spenser.
DESCRY
, Discovery or view, as of an army seen at a distance. [Obs.]Near, and on speedy foot; the main descry Stands on the hourlythought. Shak.
DESECATE
To cut, as with a scythe; to mow. [Obs.]
DESECRATE
To divest of a sacred character or office; to divert from asacred purpose; to violate the sanctity of; to profane; to put to anunworthy use; -- the opposite of consecrate.The [Russian] clergy can not suffer corporal punishment without beingpreviously desecrated. W. Tooke.The founders of monasteries imprecated evil on those who shoulddesecrate their donations. Salmon.
DESECRATER
One who desecrates; a profaner. Harper's Mag.
DESECRATION
The act of desecrating; profanation; condition of anythingdesecrated.
DESECRATOR
One who desecrates. "Desecrators of the church." Morley.
DESEGMENTATION
The loss or obliteration of division into segments; as, adesegmentation of the body.
DESERT
That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justlydue; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward;merit.According to their deserts will I judge them. Ezek. vii. 27.Andronicus, surnamed Pius For many good and great deserts to Rome.Shak.His reputation falls far below his desert. A. Hamilton.
DESERTER
One who forsakes a duty, a cause or a party, a friend, or anyone to whom he owes service; especially, a soldier or a seaman whoabandons the service without leave; one guilty of desertion.
DESERTFUL
Meritorious. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
DESERTLESS
Without desert. [R.]
DESERTLESSLY
Undeservedly. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
DESERTNESS
A deserted condition. [R.] "The desertness of the country."Udall.
DESERVE
To be worthy of recompense; -- usually with ill or with well.One man may merit or deserve of another. South.
DESERVEDLY
According to desert (whether good or evil); justly.
DESERVEDNESS
Meritoriousness.
DESERVER
One who deserves.
DESERVING
Desert; merit.A person of great deservings from the republic. Swift.
DESHABILLE
An undress; a careless toilet.
DESICCANT
Drying; desiccative.-- n.
DESICCATE
To dry up; to deprive or exhaust of moisture; to preserve bydrying; as, to desiccate fish or fruit.Bodies desiccated by heat or age. Bacon.
DESICCATION
The act of desiccating, or the state of being desiccated.
DESICCATIVE
Drying; tending to dry. Ferrand.-- n. (Med.)
DESICCATOR
A short glass jar fitted with an air-tight cover, andcontaining some desiccating agent, as sulphuric acid or calciumchloride, above which is suspended the material to be dried, orpreserved from moisture.
DESICCATORY
Desiccative.
DESIDERABLE
Desirable. [R.] "Good and desiderable things." Holland.
DESIDERATA
See Desideratum.
DESIDERATE
To desire; to feel the want of; to lack; to miss; to want.Pray have the goodness to point out one word missing that ought tohave been there -- please to insert a desiderated stanza. You cannot. Prof. Wilson.Men were beginning . . . to desiderate for them an actual abode offire. A. W. Ward.
DESIDERATION
Act of desiderating; also, the thing desired. [R.] Jeffrey.
DESIDERATIVE
Denoting desire; as, desiderative verbs.
DESIDERATUM
Anything desired; that of which the lack is felt; a wantgenerally felt and acknowledge.
DESIDIOUSNESS
The state or quality of being desidiose, or indolent. [Obs.] N.Bacon.
DESIGHT
An unsightly object. [Obs.]
DESIGHTMENT
The act of making unsightly; disfigurement. [R.]To substitute jury masts at whatever desightment or damage in risk.London Times.
DESIGN
To form a design or designs; to plan. Design for, to intend togo to. [Obs.] "From this city she designed for Collin [Cologne]."Evelyn.
DESIGNABLE
Capable of being designated or distinctly marked out;distinguishable. Boyle.
DESIGNATE
Designated; appointed; chosen. [R.] Sir G. Buck.
DESIGNATIVE
Serving to designate or indicate; pointing out.
DESIGNATOR
An officer who assigned to each his rank and place in publicshows and ceremonies.
DESIGNATORY
Serving to designate; designative; indicating. [R.]
DESIGNEDLY
By design; purposely; intentionally; -- opposed toaccidentally, ignorantly, or inadvertently.
DESIGNER
One who produces or creates original works of art ordecoration.
DESIGNFUL
Full of design; scheming. [R.] -- De*sign"ful*ness, n. [R.]Barrow.
DESIGNING
Intriguing; artful; scheming; as, a designing man.
DESIGNLESS
Without design. [Obs.] -- De*sign"less*ly, adv. [Obs.]
DESILVER
To deprive of silver; as, to desilver lead.
DESILVERIZATION
The act or the process of freeing from silver; also, thecondition resulting from the removal of silver.
DESILVERIZE
To deprive, or free from, silver; to remove silver from.
DESINENCE
Termination; ending. Bp. Hall.
DESINENT
Ending; forming an end; lowermost. [Obs.] "Their desinentparts, fish." B. Jonson.
DESINENTIAL
Terminal.Furthermore, b, as a desinential element, has a dynamic function.Fitzed. Hall.
DESIPIENT
Foolish; silly; trifling. [R.]
DESIRABILITY
The state or quality of being desirable; desirableness.
DESIRABLE
Worthy of desire or longing; fitted to excite desire or a wishto possess; pleasing; agreeable.All of them desirable young men. Ezek. xxiii. 12.As things desirable excite Desire, and objects move the appetite.Blackmore.
DESIRABLENESS
The quality of being desirable.The desirableness of the Austrian alliance. Froude.
DESIRABLY
In a desirable manner.
DESIREFUL
Filled with desire; eager. [R.]The desireful troops. Godfrey (1594).
DESIREFULNESS
The state of being desireful; eagerness to obtain and possess.[R.]The desirefulness of our minds much augmenteth and increaseth ourpleasure. Udall.
DESIRELESS
Free from desire. Donne.
DESIRER
One who desires, asks, or wishes.
DESIROUS
Feeling desire; eagerly wishing; solicitous; eager to obtain;covetous.Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him. John xvi. 19.Be not desirous of his dainties. Prov. xxiii. 3.
DESIROUSLY
With desire; eagerly.
DESIROUSNESS
The state of being desirous.
DESIST
To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often withfrom.Never desisting to do evil. E. Hall.To desist from his bad practice. Massinger.Desist (thou art discern'd, And toil'st in vain). Milton.
DESISTANCE
The act or state of desisting; cessation. [R.] Boyle.If fatigue of body or brain were in every case followed by desistance. . . then would the system be but seldom out of working order. H.Spencer.
DESISTIVE
Final; conclusive; ending. [R.]
DESITION
An end or ending. [R.]
DESITIVE
Final; serving to complete; conclusive. [Obs.] "Desitivepropositions." I. Watts.
DESK
To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure.
DESKWORK
Work done at a desk, as by a clerk or writer. Tennyson.
DESMAN
An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogalemoschata). It is allied to the moles, but is called muscrat by someEnglish writers. [Written also dรฆsman.]
DESMINE
Same as Stilbite. It commonly occurs in bundles or tufts ofcrystals.
DESMOBACTERIA
See Microbacteria.
DESMODONT
A member of a group of South American blood-sucking bats, ofthe genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.
DESMOGNATHOUS
Having the maxillo-palatine bones united; -- applied to a groupof carinate birds (Desmognathรฆ), including various wading andswimming birds, as the ducks and herons, and also raptorial and otherkinds.
DESMOID
Resembling, or having the characteristics of, a ligament;ligamentous.
DESMOLOGY
The science which treats of the ligaments. [R.]
DESMOMYARIA
The division of Tunicata which includes the Salpรฆ. See Salpa.
DESOLATELY
In a desolate manner.
DESOLATENESS
The state of being desolate.
DESOLATER
One who, or that which, desolates or lays waste. Mede.
DESOLATOR
Same as Desolater. Byron.
DESOLATORY
Causing desolation. [R.] Bp. Hall.
DESOPHISTICATE
To clear from sophism or error. [R.] Hare.
DESOXALIC
Made or derived from oxalic acid; as, desoxalic acid.
DESPAIR
To be hopeless; to have no hope; to give up all hope orexpectation; -- often with of.We despaired even of life. 2 Cor. i. 8.Never despair of God's blessings here. Wake.
DESPAIRER
One who despairs.
DESPAIRFUL
Hopeless. [Obs.] Spenser.
DESPAIRING
Feeling or expressing despair; hopeless.-- De*spair"ing*ly, adv.-- De*spair"ing*ness, n.
DESPARPLE
To scatter; to disparkle. [Obs.] Mandeville.
DESPATCH
Same as Dispatch.
DESPECIFICATE
To discriminate; to separate according to specificsignification or qualities; to specificate; to desynonymize. [R.]Inaptitude and ineptitude have been usefully despecificated. Fitzed.Hall.
DESPECIFICATION
Discrimination.
DESPECT
Contempt. [R.] Coleridge.
DESPECTION
A looking down; a despising. [R.] W. Montagu.
DESPEED
To send hastily. [Obs.]Despeeded certain of their crew. Speed.
DESPEND
To spend; to squander. See Dispend. [Obs.]Some noble men in Spain can despend Howell.
DESPERADO
A reckless, furious man; a person urged by furious passions,and regardless of consequence; a wild ruffian.
DESPERATE
One desperate or hopeless. [Obs.]
DESPERATELY
In a desperate manner; without regard to danger or safety;recklessly; extremely; as, the troops fought desperately.She fell desperately in love with him. Addison.
DESPERATENESS
Desperation; virulence.
DESPICABILITY
Despicableness. [R.] Carlyle.
DESPICABLE
Fit or deserving to be despised; contemptible; mean; vile;worthless; as, a despicable man; despicable company; a despicablegift.
DESPICABLENESS
The quality of being despicable; meanness; vileness;worthlessness.
DESPICABLY
In a despicable or mean manner; contemptibly; as, despicablystingy.
DESPICIENCY
A looking down; despection. [Obs.]
DESPISABLE
Despicable; contemptible. [R.]
DESPISAL
A despising; contempt. [R.]A despisal of religion. South.
DESPISE
To look down upon with disfavor or contempt; to contemn; toscorn; to disdain; to have a low opinion or contemptuous dislike of.Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Prov. i. 7.Men naturally despise those who court them, but respect those who donot give way to them. Jowett (Thucyd. ).
DESPISEDNESS
The state of being despised.
DESPISEMENT
A despising. [R.] Holland.
DESPISER
One who despises; a contemner; a scorner.
DESPISINGLY
Contemptuously.
DESPITE
To vex; to annoy; to offend contemptuously. [Obs.] Sir W.Raleigh.
DESPITEFUL
Full of despite; expressing malice or contemptuous hate;malicious.-- De*spite"ful*ly, adv.-- De*spite"ful*ness, n.Haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters. Rom. i. 30.Pray for them which despitefully use you. Matt. v. 44.Let us examine him with despitefulness and fortune. Book of Wisdomii. 19.
DESPITEOUS
Feeling or showing despite; malicious; angry to excess; cruel;contemptuous. [Obs.] "Despiteous reproaches." Holland.
DESPITEOUSLY
Despitefully. [Obs.]
DESPITOUS
Despiteous; very angry; cruel. [Obs.]He was to sinful man not despitous. Chaucer.- De*spit"ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]
DESPOIL
Spoil. [Obs.] Wolsey.
DESPOILER
One who despoils.
DESPOILMENT
Despoliation. [R.]
DESPOLIATION
A stripping or plundering; spoliation. Bailey.
DESPOND
To give up, the will, courage, or spirit; to be thoroughlydisheartened; to lose all courage; to become dispirited or depressed;to take an unhopeful view.I should despair, or at least despond. Scott's Letters.Others depress their own minds, [and] despond at the firstdifficulty. Locke.We wish that . . . desponding patriotism may turn its eyeshitherward, and be assured that foundations of our national powerstill stand strong. D. Webster.
DESPONDENCE
Despondency.The people, when once infected, lose their relish for happiness [and]saunter about with looks of despondence. Goldsmith.
DESPONDENCY
The state of desponding; loss of hope and cessation of effort;discouragement; depression or dejection of the mind.The unhappy prince seemed, during some days, to be sunk indespondency. Macaulay.
DESPONDENT
Marked by despondence; given to despondence; low-spirited; as,a despondent manner; a despondent prisoner.-- De*spond"ent*ly, adv.
DESPONDER
One who desponds.
DESPONDINGLY
In a desponding manner.
DESPONSAGE
Betrothal. [Obs.]Ethelbert . . . went peaceably to King Offa for desponsage ofAthilrid, his daughter. Foxe.
DESPONSATE
To betroth. [Obs.] Johnson.
DESPONSATION
A betrothing; betrothal. [Obs.]For all this desponsation of her . . . she had not set one steptoward the consummation of her marriage. Jer. Taylor.
DESPONSORY
A written pledge of marriage. Clarendon.
DESPORT
See Disport.
DESPOTAT
The station or government of a despot; also, the domain of adespot. Freeman.
DESPOTIST
A supporter of despotism. [R.]
DESPOTIZE
To act the despot.
DESPREAD
See Dispread.
DESPUMATE
To throw off impurities in spume; to work off in foam or scum;to foam.
DESPUMATION
The act of throwing up froth or scum; separation of the scum orimpurities from liquids; scumming; clarification.
DESPUME
To free from spume or scum. [Obs.]If honey be despumed. Holland.
DESQUAMATE
To peel off in the form of scales; to scale off, as the skin incertain diseases.
DESQUAMATION
The separation or shedding of the cuticle or epidermis in theform of flakes or scales; exfoliation, as of bones.
DESQUAMATORY
An instrument formerly used in removing the laminรฆ ofexfoliated bones.
DESS
Dais. [Obs.]
DESSERT
A service of pastry, fruits, or sweetmeats, at the close of afeast or entertainment; pastry, fruits, etc., forming the last courseat dinner."An 't please your honor," quoth the peasant, "This same dessert isnot so pleasant." Pope.Dessert spoon, a spoon used in eating dessert; a spoon intermediatein size between a teaspoon and a tablespoon.-- Dessert-spoonful, n., pl. Dessert-spoonfuls, as much as a dessertspoon will hold, usually reckoned at about two and a half fluiddrams.
DESTEMPER
A kind of painting. See Distemper.
DESTIN
Destiny. [Obs.] Marston.
DESTINABLE
Determined by destiny; fated. Chaucer.
DESTINABLY
In a destinable manner.
DESTINAL
Determined by destiny; fated. [Obs.] "The order destinal."Chaucer.
DESTINATE
Destined. [Obs.] "Destinate to hell." Foxe.
DESTINE
To determine the future condition or application of; to setapart by design for a future use or purpose; to fix, as by destiny orby an authoritative decree; to doom; to ordain or preordain; toappoint; -- often with the remoter object preceded by to or for.We are decreed, Reserved, and destined to eternal woe. Milton.Till the loathsome opposite Of all my heart had destined, did obtain.Tennyson.Not enjoyment and not sorrow Is our destined end or way. Longfellow.
DESTINIST
A believer in destiny; a fatalist. [R.]
DESTITUENT
Deficient; wanting; as, a destituent condition. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
DESTITUTELY
In destitution.
DESTITUTENESS
Destitution. [R.] Ash.
DESTITUTION
The state of being deprived of anything; the state or conditionof being destitute, needy, or without resources; deficiency; lack;extreme poverty; utter want; as, the inundation caused generaldestitution.
DESTRIE
To destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DESTROYABLE
Destructible. [R.]Plants . . . scarcely destroyable by the weather. Derham.
DESTROYER
One who destroys, ruins, kills, or desolates.
DESTRUCT
To destroy. [Obs.] Mede.
DESTRUCTIBILITY
The quality of being capable of destruction; destructibleness.
DESTRUCTIBLE
Liable to destruction; capable of being destroyed.
DESTRUCTIBLENESS
The quality of being destructible.
DESTRUCTIONIST
One who believes in the final destruction or completeannihilation of the wicked; -- called also annihilationist. Shipley.
DESTRUCTIVE
Causing destruction; tending to bring about ruin, death, ordevastation; ruinous; fatal; productive of serious evil; mischievous;pernicious; -- often with of or to; as, intemperance is destructiveof health; evil examples are destructive to the morals of youth.Time's destructive power. Wordsworth.Destructive distillation. See Distillation.-- Destructive sorties ( (Logic), a process of reasoning whichinvolves the denial of the first of a series of dependentpropositions as a consequence of the denial of the last; a species ofreductio ad absurdum. Whately.
DESTRUCTIVELY
In a destructive manner.
DESTRUCTIVENESS
The faculty supposed to impel to the commission of acts ofdestruction; propensity to destroy.
DESTRUCTOR
A destroyer. [R.]Fire, the destructive and the artificial death of things. Boyle.
DESTRUIE
To destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DESUDATION
A sweating; a profuse or morbid sweating, often succeeded by aneruption of small pimples.
DESUETE
Disused; out of use. [R.]
DESUETUDE
The cessation of use; disuse; discontinuance of practice,custom, or fashion.The desuetude abrogated the law, which, before, custom hadestablished. Jer. Taylor.
DESULPHURATE
To deprive of sulphur.
DESULPHURATION
The act or process of depriving of sulphur.
DESULPHURIZE
To desulphurate; to deprive of sulphur.-- De*sul`phur*i*za"tion, n.
DESULTORILY
In a desultory manner; without method; loosely; immethodically.
DESULTORINESS
The quality of being desultory or without order or method;unconnectedness.The seeming desultoriness of my method. Boyle.
DESULTORIOUS
Desultory. [R.]
DESUME
To select; to borrow. [Obs.] Sir. M. Hale.
DESYNONYMIZATION
The act of desynonymizing.
DESYNONYMIZE
To deprive of synonymous character; to discriminate in use; --applied to words which have been employed as synonyms. Coleridge.Trench.
DETACH
To push asunder; to come off or separate from anything; todisengage.[A vapor] detaching, fold by fold, From those still heights.Tennyson.
DETACHABLE
That can be detached.
DETACHED
Separate; unconnected, or imperfectly connected; as, detachedparcels. "Extensive and detached empire." Burke. Detached escapement.See Escapement.
DETAIL
The selection for a particular service of a person or a body ofmen; hence, the person or the body of men so selected. Detaildrawing, a drawing of the full size, or on a large scale, of somepart of a building, machine, etc.-- In detail, in subdivisions; part by part; item; circumstantially;with particularity.
DETAILER
One who details.
DETAIN
Detention. [Obs.] Spenser.
DETAINDER
A writ. See Detinue.
DETAINMENT
Detention. [R.] Blackstone.
DETECT
Detected. [Obs.] Fabyan.
DETECTER
One who, or that which, detects or brings to light; one whofinds out what another attempts to conceal; a detector.
DETECTION
The act of detecting; the laying open what was concealed orhidden; discovery; as, the detection of a thief; the detection offraud, forgery, or a plot.Such secrets of guilt are never from detection. D. Webster.
DETECTIVE
Fitted for, or skilled in, detecting; employed in detectingcrime or criminals; as, a detective officer.
DETECTOR
One who, or that which, detects; a detecter. Shak.A deathbed's detector of the heart. Young.Bank-note detector, a publication containing a description of genuineand counterfeit bank notes, designed to enable persons todiscriminate between them.-- Detector l. See under Lock.
DETECTOR BAR
A bar, connected with a switch, longer than the distancebetween any two consecutive wheels of a train (45 to 50 feet), laidinside a rail and operated by the wheels so that the switch cannot bethrown until all the train is past the switch.
DETENEBRATE
To remove darkness from. [Obs.] Ash.
DETENT
That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog;especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks thewheelwork in striking.
DETER
To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action byfear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc. Addison.Potent enemies tempt and deter us from our duty. Tillotson.My own face deters me from my glass. Prior.
DETERGE
To cleanse; to purge away, as foul or offending matter from thebody, or from an ulcer.
DETERGENCY
A cleansing quality or power. De Foe.
DETERGENT
Cleansing; purging.-- n.
DETERIORATE
To make worse; to make inferior in quality or value; to impair;as, to deteriorate the mind. Whately.The art of war . . . was greatly deteriorated. Southey.
DETERIORATION
The process of growing worse, or the state of having grownworse.
DETERIORITY
Worse state or quality; inferiority. "The deteriority of thediet." [R.] Ray.
DETERMENT
The act of deterring; also, that which deters. Boyle.
DETERMINABILITY
The quality of being determinable; determinableness. Coleridge.
DETERMINABLE
Capable of being determined, definitely ascertained, decidedupon, or brought to a conclusion.Not wholly determinable from the grammatical use of the words. South.
DETERMINABLENESS
Capability of being determined; determinability.
DETERMINACY
Determinateness. [R.]
DETERMINANT
Serving to determine or limit; determinative.
DETERMINATE
To bring to an end; to determine. See Determine. [Obs.]The sly, slow hours shall not determinate The dateless limit of thydear exile. Shak.
DETERMINATENESS
State of being determinate.
DETERMINATION
A flow, rush, or tendency to a particular part; as, adetermination of blood to the head.
DETERMINATIVE
Having power to determine; limiting; shaping; directing;conclusive.Incidents . . . determinative of their course. I. Taylor.Determinative tables (Nat. Hist.), tables presenting the specificcharacter of minerals, plants, etc., to assist in determining thespecies to which a specimen belongs.
DETERMINATOR
One who determines. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
DETERMINE
To define or limit by adding a differentia.
DETERMINED
Decided; resolute. "Adetermined foe."" Sparks.
DETERMINEDLY
In a determined manner; with determination.
DETERMINER
One who, or that which, determines or decides.
DETERMINISM
The doctrine that the will is not free, but is inevitably andinvincibly determined by motives.Its superior suitability to produce courage, as contrasted withscientific physical determinism, is obvious. F. P. Cobbe.
DETERMINIST
One who believes in determinism. Also adj.; as, deterministtheories.
DETERRATION
The uncovering of anything buried or covered with earth; ataking out of the earth or ground. Woodward.
DETERRENCE
That which deters; a deterrent; a hindrance. [R.]
DETERRENT
Serving to deter. "The deterrent principle." E. Davis.
DETERSION
The act of deterging or cleansing, as a sore.
DETERSIVE
Cleansing; detergent.-- n.
DETERSIVELY
In a way to cleanse.
DETERSIVENESS
The quality of cleansing.
DETESTABILITY
Capacity of being odious. [R.] Carlyle.
DETESTABLE
Worthy of being detested; abominable; extremely hateful; veryodious; deserving abhorrence; as, detestable vices.Thou hast defiled my sanctuary will all thy detestable things, andwith all thine abominations. Ezek. v. 11.
DETESTABLENESS
The quality or state of being detestable.
DETESTABLY
In a detestable manner.
DETESTATE
To detest. [Obs.] Udall.
DETESTATION
The act of detesting; extreme hatred or dislike; abhorrence;loathing.We are heartily agreed in our detestation of civil war. Burke.
DETESTER
One who detes
DETHRONE
To remove or drive from a throne; to depose; to divest ofsupreme authority and dignity. "The Protector was dethroned." Hume.
DETHRONEMENT
Deposal from a throne; deposition from regal power.
DETHRONER
One who dethrones.
DETHRONIZATION
Dethronement. [Obs.] Speed.
DETHRONIZE
To dethrone or unthrone. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
DETINUE
A person or thing detained; (Law)
DETONATE
To explode with a sudden report; as, niter detonates withsulphur.
DETONATING
from Detonate. Detonating gas, a mixture of two volumes ofhydrogen with one volume of oxygen, which explodes with a loud reportupon ignition.-- Detonating powder, any powder or solid substance, as fulminate ofmercury, which when struck, explodes with violence and a loud report.-- Detonating primer, a primer exploded by a fuse; -- used toexplode gun cotton in blasting operations.-- Detonating tube, a strong tube of glass, usually graduated,closed at one end, and furnished with two wires passing through itssides at opposite points, and nearly meeting, for the purpose ofexploding gaseous mixtures by an electric spark, as in gas analysis,etc.
DETONATION
An explosion or sudden report made by the instantaneousdecomposition or combustion of unstable substances' as, thedetonation of gun cotton.
DETONATOR
One who, or that which, detonates.
DETONIZATION
The act of detonizing; detonation.
DETONIZE
To explode, or cause to explode; to burn with an explosion; todetonate.
DETORSION
Same as Detortion.
DETORT
To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; towrest. Hammond.
DETORTION
The act of detorting, or the state of being detorted; atwisting or warping.
DETOUR
A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a directcourse; as, the detours of the Mississippi.
DETRACT
To take away a part or something, especially from one's credit;to lessen reputation; to derogate; to defame; -- often with from.It has been the fashion to detract both from the moral and literarycharacter of Cicero. V. Knox.
DETRACTER
One who detracts; a detractor.Other detracters and malicious writers. Sir T. North.
DETRACTINGLY
In a detracting manner.
DETRACTIOUS
Containing detraction; detractory. [R.] Johnson.
DETRACTIVENESS
The quality of being detractive.
DETRACTOR
One who detracts; a derogator; a defamer.His detractors were noisy and scurrilous. Macaulay.
DETRACTORY
Defamatory by denial of desert; derogatory; calumnious. Sir T.Browne.
DETRACTRESS
A female detractor. Addison.
DETRAIN
To alight, or to cause to alight, from a railway train. [Eng.]London Graphic.
DETRECT
To refuse; to decline. [Obs.] "To detrect the battle."Holinshed.
DETRIMENT
To do injury to; to hurt. [Archaic]Other might be determined thereby. Fuller.
DETRIMENTAL
Causing detriment; injurious; hurtful.Neither dangerous nor detrimental to the donor. Addison.
DETRIMENTALNESS
The quality of being detrimental; injuriousness.
DETRITAL
Pertaining to, or composed of, detritus.
DETRITE
Worn out.
DETRITION
A wearing off or away.Phonograms which by process long-continued detrition have reached astep of extreme simplicity. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
DETRITUS
A mass of substances worn off from solid bodies by attrition,and reduced to small portions; as, diluvial detritus.
DETRUDE
To thrust down or out; to push down with force. Locke.
DETRUNCATE
To shorten by cutting; to cut off; to lop off.
DETRUNCATION
The act of lopping or cutting off, as the head from the body.
DETRUSION
The act of thrusting or driving down or outward; outwardthrust.-- De*tru"sive, a.
DETTE
Debt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DETTELES
Free from debt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DETUMESCENCE
Diminution of swelling; subsidence of anything swollen. [R.]Cudworth.
DETUR
A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate studentas a prize. [Harvard Univ., U. S.]
DETURB
To throw down. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DETURBATE
To evict; to remove. [Obs.] Foxe.
DETURBATION
The act of deturbating. [Obs.]
DETURN
To turn away. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.
DETURPATE
To defile; to disfigure. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
DETURPATION
A making foul. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
DEUCE
Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts.
DEUCED
Devilish; excessive; extreme. [Low] -- Deu"ced*ly, adv.
DEUTEROCANONICAL
Pertaining to a second canon, or ecclesiastical writing ofinferior authority; -- said of the Apocrypha, certain Epistles, etc.
DEUTEROGAMIST
One who marries the second time.
DEUTEROGAMY
A second marriage, after the death of the first husband ofwife; -- in distinction from bigamy, as defined in the old canon law.See Bigamy. Goldsmith.
DEUTEROGENIC
Of secondary origin; -- said of certain rocks whose materialhas been derived from older rocks.
DEUTERONOMIST
The writer of Deuteronomy.
DEUTERONOMY
The fifth book of the Pentateuch, containing the second givingof the law by Moses.
DEUTEROPATHIC
Pertaining to deuteropathy; of the nature of deuteropathy.
DEUTEROZOOID
One of the secondary, and usually sexual, zooids produced bybudding or fission from the primary zooids, in animals havingalternate generations. In the tapeworms, the joints aredeuterozooids.
DEUTHYDROGURET
Same as Deutohydroguret.
DEUTOHYDROGURET
A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of hydrogenunited with some other element or radical. [Obs.]
DEUTOPLASM
The lifeless food matter in the cytoplasm of an ovum or a cell,as distinguished from the active or true protoplasm; yolk substance;yolk.
DEUTOPLASTIC
Pertaining to, or composed of, deutoplasm.
DEUTOSULPHURET
A disulphide. [Obs.]
DEUTOXIDE
A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of oxygenunited with some other element or radical; -- usually called dioxide,or less frequently, binoxide.
DEUTZIA
A genus of shrubs with pretty white flowers, much cultivated.
DEVANAGARI
The character in which Sanskrit is written.
DEVAPORATION
The change of vapor into water, as in the formation of rain.
DEVAST
To devastate. [Obs.] Bolingbroke.
DEVASTATE
To lay waste; to ravage; to desolate.Whole countries . . . were devastated. Macaulay.
DEVASTATION
Waste of the goods of the deceased by an executor oradministrator. Blackstone.
DEVASTATOR
One who, or that which, devastates. Emerson.
DEVASTAVIT
Waste or misapplication of the assets of a deceased person byan executor or an administrator. Bouvier.
DEVATA
A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol. [Written alsodewata.]
DEVE
Deaf. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEVELIN
The European swift. [Prov. Eng.]
DEVELOP
To change the form of, as of an algebraic expression, byexecuting certain indicated operations without changing the value.
DEVELOPABLE
Capable of being developed. J. Peile. Developable surface(Math.), a surface described by a moving right line, and such thatconsecutive positions of the generator intersect each other. Hence,the surface can be developed into a plane.
DEVELOPER
A reagent by the action of which the latent image upon aphotographic plate, after exposure in the camera, or otherwise, isdeveloped and visible.
DEVELOPMENT
The series of changes which animal and vegetable organismsundergo in their passage from the embryonic state to maturity, from alower to a higher state of organization.
DEVELOPMENTAL
Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the process ofdevelopment; as, the developmental power of a germ. Carpenter.
DEVENUSTATE
To deprive of beauty or grace. [Obs.]
DEVEST
To be taken away, lost, or alienated, as a title or an estate.
DEVEX
Bending down; sloping. [Obs.]
DEVEXITY
A bending downward; a sloping; incurvation downward; declivity.[R.] Davies (Wit's Pilgr.)
DEVI
; fem. of Deva. A goddess.
DEVIANT
Deviating. [Obs.]
DEVIATE
To go out of the way; to turn aside from a course or a method;to stray or go astray; to err; to digress; to diverge; to vary.Thus Pegasus, a nearer way to take, May boldly deviate from thecommon track. Pope.
DEVIATION
The voluntary and unnecessary departure of a ship from, ordelay in, the regular and usual course of the specific voyageinsured, thus releasing the underwriters from their responsibility.Deviation of a falling body (Physics), that deviation from a strictlyvertical line of descent which occurs in a body falling freely, inconsequence of the rotation of the earth.-- Deviation of the compass, the angle which the needle of a ship'scompass makes with the magnetic meridian by reason of the magnetismof the iron parts of the ship.-- Deviation of the line of the vertical, the difference between theactual direction of a plumb line and the direction it would have ifthe earth were a perfect ellipsoid and homogeneous, -- caused by theattraction of a mountain, or irregularities in the earth's density.
DEVIATOR
One who, or that which, deviates.
DEVIATORY
Tending to deviate; devious; as, deviatory motion. [R.] Tully.
DEVICEFUL
Full of devices; inventive. [R.]A carpet, rich, and of deviceful thread. Chapman.
DEVICEFULLY
In a deviceful manner. [R.]
DEVIL
A dish, as a bone with the meat, broiled and excessivelypeppered; a grill with Cayenne pepper.Men and women busy in baking, broiling, roasting oysters, andpreparing devils on the gridiron. Sir W. Scott.
DEVILESS
A she-devil. [R.] Sterne.
DEVILET
A little devil. [R.] Barham.
DEVILING
A young devil. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
DEVILISM
The state of the devil or of devils; doctrine of the devil orof devils. Bp. Hall.
DEVILIZE
To make a devil of. [R.]He that should deify a saint, should wrong him as much as he thatshould devilize him. Bp. Hall.
DEVILKIN
A little devil; a devilet.
DEVILMENT
Deviltry. Bp. Warburton.
DEVILRY
A dragon fly. See Darning needle, under Darn, v. t.
DEVILSHIP
The character or person of a devil or the devil. Cowley.
DEVILTRY
Diabolical conduct; malignant mischief; devilry. C. Reade.
DEVILWOOD
A kind of tree (Osmanthus Americanus), allied to the Europeanolive.
DEVIRGINATE
Deprived of virginity. [R.]
DEVIRGINATION
A deflouring. [R.] Feltham.
DEVISAL
A devising. Whitney.
DEVISE
To give by will; -- used of real estate; formerly, also, ofchattels.
DEVISEE
One to whom a devise is made, or real estate given by will.
DEVISER
One who devises.
DEVISOR
One who devises, or gives real estate by will; a testator; --correlative to devisee.
DEVITABLE
Avoidable. [Obs.]
DEVITALIZE
To deprive of life or vitality.-- De*vi`tal*i*za"tion, n.
DEVITATION
An avoiding or escaping; also, a warning. [Obs.] Bailey.
DEVITRIFICATION
The act or process of devitrifying, or the state of beingdevitrified. Specifically, the conversion of molten glassy matterinto a stony mass by slow cooling, the result being the formation ofcrystallites, microbites, etc., in the glassy base, which are thencalled devitrification products.
DEVITRIFY
To deprive of glasslike character; to take away vitreous lusterand transparency from.
DEVOCALIZE
To make toneless; to deprive of vowel quality.-- De*vo`cal*i*za"tion, n.If we take a high vowel, such as (i) [= nearly i of bit], anddevocalize it, we obtain a hiss which is quite distinct enough tostand for a weak (jh). H. Sweet.
DEVOCATION
A calling off or away. [R.] Hallywell.
DEVOID
To empty out; to remove.
DEVOIR
Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; --now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies."Do now your devoid, young knights!" Chaucer.
DEVOLUTE
To devolve. [Obs.] Foxe.
DEVOLVE
To pass by transmission or succession; to be handed over ordown; -- generally with on or upon, sometimes with to or into; as,after the general fell, the command devolved upon (or on) the nextofficer in rank.His estate . . . devolved to Lord Somerville. Johnson.
DEVOLVEMENT
The act or process of devolving;; devolution.
DEVON
One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country ofDevon, England. Those of pure blood have a deep red color. The small,longhorned variety, called North Devons, is distinguished by thesuperiority of its working oxen.
DEVONIAN
Of or pertaining to Devon or Devonshire in England; as, theDevonian rocks, period, or system. Devonian age (Geol.), the age nextolder than the Carboniferous and later than the Silurian; -- calledalso the Age of fishes. The various strata of this age compose theDevonian formation or system, and include the old red sandstone ofGreat Britain. They contain, besides plants and numerousinvertebrates, the bony portions of many large and remarkable fishesof extinct groups. See the Diagram under Geology.
DEVORATION
The act of devouring. [Obs.] Holinshed.
DEVOTARY
A votary. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
DEVOTE
Devoted; addicted; devout. [Obs.] Milton.
DEVOTED
Consecrated to a purpose; strongly attached; zealous; devout;as, a devoted admirer.-- De*vot"ed*ly, adv.-- De*vot"ed*ness, n.
DEVOTEE
One who is wholly devoted; esp., one given wholly to religion;one who is superstitiously given to religious duties and ceremonies;a bigot.While Father Le Blanc was very devout he was not a devotee. A. S.Hardy.
DEVOTEMENT
The state of being devoted, or set apart by a vow. [R.] Bp.Hurd.
DEVOTER
One who devotes; a worshiper.
DEVOTIONAL
Pertaining to, suited to, or used in, devotion; as, adevotional posture; devotional exercises; a devotional frame of mind.
DEVOTIONALITY
The practice of a devotionalist. A. H. Clough.
DEVOTIONALLY
In a devotional manner; toward devotion.
DEVOTO
A devotee. Dr. J. Scott.
DEVOTOR
A worshiper; one given to devotion. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
DEVOURABLE
That may be devoured.
DEVOURER
One who, or that which, devours.
DEVOURINGLY
In a devouring manner.
DEVOUTLESS
Destitute of devotion.-- De*vout"less*ly, adv.-- De*vout"less*ness, n.
DEVOUTNESS
Quality or state of being devout.
DEVOVE
To devote. [Obs.] Cowley.
DEVOW
To disavow; to disclaim. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
DEVULGARIZE
To free from what is vulgar, common, or narrow.Shakespeare and Plutarch's "Lives" are very devulgarizing books. E.A. Abbott.
DEW
To wet with dew or as with dew; to bedew; to moisten; as withdew.The grasses grew A little ranker since they dewed them so. A. B.Saxton.
DEW-POINT
The temperature at which dew begins to form. It varies with thehumidity and temperature of the atmosphere.
DEWAR VESSEL
A double-walled glass vessel for holding liquid air, etc.,having the space between the walls exhausted so as to preventconduction of heat, and sometimes having the glass silvered toprevent absorption of radiant heat; -- called also, according to theparticular shape, Dewar bulb, Dewar tube, etc.
DEWCLAW
In any animal, esp. of the Herbivora, a rudimentary claw orsmall hoof not reaching the ground.Some cut off the dewclaws [of greyhounds]. J. H. Walsh.
DEWDROP
A drop of dew. Shak.
DEWFALL
The falling of dew; the time when dew begins to fall.
DEWINESS
State of being dewy.
DEWLAPPED
Furnished with a dewlap.
DEWLESS
Having no dew. Tennyson.
DEWRET
To ret or rot by the process called dewretting.
DEWRETTING
Dewrotting; the process of decomposing the gummy matter of flaxand hemp and setting the fibrous part, by exposure on a sward to dew,rain, and sunshine.
DEWROT
To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. SeeDewretting.
DEWWORM
See Earthworm.
DEWY
Resembling a dew-covered surface; appearing as if covered withdew.
DEXTER
On the right-hand side of a shield, i. e., towards the righthand of its wearer. To a spectator in front, as in a pictorialrepresentation, this would be the left side. Dexter chief, or Dexterpoint (Her.), a point in the dexter upper corner of the shield, beingin the dexter extremity of the chief, as A in the cut.-- Dexter base, a point in the dexter lower part or base of theshield, as B in the cut.
DEXTERICAL
Dexterous. [Obs.]
DEXTEROUSLY
In a dexterous manner; skillfully.
DEXTEROUSNESS
The quality of being dexterous; dexterity.
DEXTRAD
Toward the right side; dextrally.
DEXTRAL
Right, as opposed to sinistral, or left. Dextral shell (Zoรถl.),a spiral shell the whorls of which turn from left right, or like thehands of a watch when the apex of the spire is toward the eye of theobserver.
DEXTRALITY
The state of being on the right-hand side; also, the quality ofbeing right-handed; right-handedness. Sir T. Browne.
DEXTRALLY
(adv. Towards the right; as, the hands of a watch rotatedextrally.
DEXTRER
A war horse; a destrer. [Obs.] "By him baiteth his dextrer."Chaucer.
DEXTRIN
A translucent, gummy, amorphous substance, nearly tasteless andodorless, used as a substitute for gum, for sizing, etc., andobtained from starch by the action of heat, acids, or diastase. It isof somewhat variable composition, containing several carbohydrateswhich change easily to their respective varieties of sugar. It is sonamed from its rotating the plane of polarization to the right; --called also British gum, Alsace gum, gommelin, leiocome, etc. SeeAchroรถdextrin, and Erythrodextrin.
DEXTRO-
A prefix, from L. dexter, meaning, pertaining to, or toward,the right; (Chem. & Opt.)
DEXTROGEROUS
See Dextrogyrate.
DEXTROGLUCOSE
Same as Dextrose.
DEXTROGYRATE
Same as Dextrorotatory.
DEXTRONIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, dextrose; as, dextronic acid.Dextronic acid, a sirupy substance obtained by the partial oxidationof various carbohydrates, as dextrose, etc.
DEXTROROTARY
See Dextrotatory.
DEXTROROTATORY
Turning, or causing to turn, toward the right hand; esp.,turning the plane of polarization of luminous rays toward the righthand; as, dextrorotatory crystals, sugars, etc. Cf. Levorotatory.
DEXTROSE
A sirupy, or white crystalline, variety of sugar, C6H12O6 (socalled from turning the plane of polarization to the right),occurring in many ripe fruits. Dextrose and levulose are obtained bythe inversion of cane sugar or sucrose, and hence called invertsugar. Dextrose is chiefly obtained by the action of heat and acidson starch, and hence called also starch sugar. It is also formed fromstarchy food by the action of the amylolytic ferments of saliva andpancreatic juice.
DEY
A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid. [Obs.]Chaucer.
DEYE
To die. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DEZINCIFICATION
The act or process of freeing from zinc; also, the conditionresulting from the removal of zinc.
DEZINCIFY
To deprive of, or free from, zinc.
DHOLE
A fierce, wild dog (Canis Dukhunensis), found in the mountainsof India. It is remarkable for its propensity to hunt the tiger andother wild animals in packs.
DHONY
A Ceylonese boat. See Doni.
DHOW
A coasting vessel of Arabia, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean.It has generally but one mast and a lateen sail. [Also written dow.]
DI-
A prefix, signifying twofold, double, twice; (Chem.)
DIABASE
A basic, dark-colored, holocrystalline, igneous rock,consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and pyroxene withmagnetic iron; -- often limited to rocks pretertiary in age. Itincludes part of what was early called greenstone.
DIABATERIAL
Passing over the borders. [R.] Mitford.
DIABETES
A disease which is attended with a persistent, excessivedischarge of urine. Most frequently the urine is not only increasedin quantity, but contains saccharine matter, in which case thedisease is generally fatal. Diabetes mellitus Etym: [NL., sweetdiabetes], that form of diabetes in which the urine containssaccharine matter.-- Diabetes insipidus Etym: [NL., lit., diabetes], the form ofdiabetes in which the urine contains no abnormal constituent.
DIABOLIFY
To ascribed diabolical qualities to; to change into, or torepresent as, a devil. [R.] Farindon.
DIABOLIZE
To render diabolical. [R.]
DIABOLO
An old game or sport (revived under this name) consisting inwhirling on a string, fastened to two sticks, a small somewhat spool-shaped object (called the diabolo) so as to balance it on a string,toss it in the air and catch it, etc.
DIACATHOLICON
A universal remedy; -- name formerly to a purgative electuary.
DIACAUSTIC
Pertaining to, or possessing the properties of, a species ofcaustic curves formed by refraction. See Caustic surface, underCaustic.
DIACID
Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturatingtwo acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid. Cf. Dibasic, a., andBiacid.
DIACODIUM
A sirup made of poppies.
DIACONAL
Of or pertaining to a deacon.
DIACONATE
The office of a deacon; deaconship; also, a body or board ofdeacons.
DIACOPE
Tmesis.
DIACOUSTIC
Pertaining to the science or doctrine of refracted sounds.
DIACOUSTICS
That branch of natural philosophy which treats of theproperties of sound as affected by passing through different mediums;-- called also diaphonics. See the Note under Acoustics.
DIACTINIC
Capable of transmitting the chemical or actinic rays of light;as, diactinic media.
DIADELPHIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants whose stamens are united into twobodies or bundles by their filaments.
DIADEM
An arch rising from the rim of a crown (rarely also of acoronet), and uniting with others over its center. Diadem lemur.(Zoรถl.) See Indri.-- Diadem spider (Zoรถl.), the garden spider.
DIADROM
A complete course or vibration; time of vibration, as of apendulum. [Obs.] Locke.
DIAERETIC
Caustic. [Obs.]
DIAGEOTROPIC
Relating to, or exhibiting, diageotropism.
DIAGEOTROPISM
The tendency of organs (as roots) of plants to assume aposition oblique or transverse to a direction towards the center ofthe earth.
DIAGLYPH
An intaglio. Mollett.
DIAGNOSE
To ascertain by diagnosis; to diagnosticate. See Diagnosticate.
DIAGNOSIS
The art or act of recognizing the presence of disease from itssigns or symptoms, and deciding as to its character; also, thedecision arrived at.
DIAGNOSTIC
Pertaining to, or furnishing, a diagnosis; indicating thenature of a disease.
DIAGNOSTICATE
To make a diagnosis of; to recognize by its symptoms, as adisease.
DIAGNOSTICS
That part of medicine which has to do with ascertaining thenature of diseases by means of their symptoms or signs.His rare skill in diagnostics. Macaulay.
DIAGOMETER
A sort of electroscope, invented by Rousseau, in which the drypile is employed to measure the amount of electricity transmitted bydifferent bodies, or to determine their conducting power. Nichol.
DIAGONAL
Joining two not adjacent angles of a quadrilateral ormultilateral figure; running across from corner to corner; crossingat an angle with one of the sides. Diagonal bond (Masonry),herringbone work. See Herringbone, a.-- Diagonal built (Shipbuilding), built by forming the outer skin oftwo layers of planking, making angles of about 45ยบ with the keel, inopposite directions.-- Diagonal cleavage. See under Cleavage.-- Diagonal molding (Arch.), a chevron or zigzag molding.-- Diagonal rib. (Arch.) See Cross-springer.-- Diagonal scale, a scale which consists of a set of parallellines, with other lines crossing them obliquely, so that theirintersections furnish smaller subdivisions of the unit of measurethan could be conveniently marked on a plain scale.-- Diagonal stratification. (Geol.) Same as Cross bedding, underCross, a.
DIAGONALLY
In a diagonal direction.
DIAGONIAL
Diagonal; diametrical; hence; diametrically opposed. [Obs.]Sin can have no tenure by law at all, but is rather an eternaloutlaw, and in hostility with law past all atonement; both diagonalcontraries, as much allowing one another as day and night together inone hemisphere. Milton.
DIAGRAM
A figure or drawing made to illustrate a statement, orfacilitate a demonstration; a plan.
DIAGRAMMATIC
Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a diagram; showing bydiagram.-- Di`a*gram*mat"ic*ly, adv.
DIAGRAPH
A drawing instrument, combining a protractor and scale.
DIAGRAPHICS
The art or science of descriptive drawing; especially, the artor science of drawing by mechanical appliances and mathematical rule.
DIAHELIOTROPIC
Relating or, or manifesting, diaheliotropism.
DIAHELIOTROPISM
A tendency of leaves or other organs of plants to have theirdorsal surface faced towards the rays of light.
DIAL
To survey with a dial. Raymond.
DIALECTAL
Relating to a dialect; dialectical; as, a dialectical variant.
DIALECTIC
Same as Dialectics.Plato placed his dialectic above all sciences. Liddell & Scott.
DIALECTICALLY
In a dialectical manner.
DIALECTICIAN
One versed in dialectics; a logician; a reasoner.
DIALECTICS
That branch of logic which teaches the rules and modes ofreasoning; the application of logical principles to discursivereasoning; the science or art of discriminating truth from error;logical discussion.
DIALECTOLOGY
That branch of philology which is devoted to the considerationof dialects. Beck.
DIALECTOR
One skilled in dialectics.
DIALIST
A maker of dials; one skilled in dialing.
DIALLAGE
A figure by which arguments are placed in various points ofview, and then turned to one point. Smart.
DIALLEL
Meeting and intersecting, as lines; not parallel; -- opposed toparallel. [Obs.] Ash.
DIALLYL
A volatile, pungent, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H10, consisting oftwo allyl radicals, and belonging to the acetylene series.
DIALOGICAL
Relating to a dialogue; dialogistical. Burton.
DIALOGICALLY
In the manner or nature of a dialogue. Goldsmith.
DIALOGISM
An imaginary speech or discussion between two or more;dialogue. Fulke.
DIALOGIST
Pertaining to a dialogue; having the form or nature of adialogue.-- Di*al`o*gis"tic*al*ly, adv.
DIALOGITE
Native carbonate of manganese; rhodochrosite.
DIALOGIZE
To discourse in dialogue. Fotherby.
DIALOGUE
To take part in a dialogue; to dialogize. [R.] Shak.
DIALYPETALOUS
Having separate petals; polypetalous.
DIALYSIS
Diรฆresis. See Diรฆresis,
DIALYTIC
Having the quality of unloosing or separating. Clarke. Dialytictelescope, an achromatic telescope in which the colored dispersionproduced by a single object lens of crown glass is corrected by asmaller concave lens, or combination of lenses, of high dispersivepower, placed at a distance in the narrower part of the convergingcone of rays, usually near the middle of the tube.
DIALYZATE
The material subjected to dialysis.
DIALYZATION
The act or process of dialysis.
DIALYZE
To separate, prepare, or obtain, by dialysis or osmose; to passthrough an animal membrane; to subject to dialysis. [Written alsodialyse.]
DIALYZED
Prepared by diffusion through an animal membrane; as, dialyzediron.
DIALYZER
The instrument or medium used to effect chemical dialysis.
DIAMAGNET
A body having diamagnetic polarity.
DIAMAGNETIC
Pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, diamagnetism;taking, or being of a nature to take, a position at right angles tothe lines of magnetic force. See Paramagnetic. Diamagneticattraction. See under Attraction.
DIAMAGNETICALLY
In the manner of, or according to, diamagnetism.
DIAMANTIFEROUS
Yielding diamonds.
DIAMANTINE
Adamantine. [Obs.]
DIAMETER
The distance through the lower part of the shaft of a column,used as a standard measure for all parts of the order. See Module.Conjugate diameters. See under Conjugate.
DIAMETRAL
Pertaining to a diameter; diametrical. Diametral curve,Diametral surface (Geom.), any line or surface which bisects a systemof parallel chords drawn in a curve or surface.-- Diametral planes (Crystal.), planes in which two of the axes lie.
DIAMETRALLY
Diametrically.
DIAMETRICALLY
In a diametrical manner; directly; as, diametrically opposite.Whose principles were diametrically opposed to his. Macaulay.
DIAMIDE
Any compound containing two amido groups united with one ormore acid or negative radicals, -- as distinguished from a diamine.Cf. Amido acid, under Amido, and Acid amide, under Amide.
DIAMIDO-
A prefix or combining form of Diamine.
DIAMINE
A compound containing two amido groups united with one or morebasic or positive radicals, -- as contrasted with a diamide.
DIAMOND
A pointed projection, like a four-sided pyramid, used forornament in lines or groups.
DIAMOND STATE
Delaware; -- a nickname alluding to its small size.
DIAMOND-BACK
The salt-marsh terrapin of the Atlantic coast (Malacoclemmyspalustris).
DIAMOND-SHAPED
Shaped like a diamond or rhombus.
DIAMONDIZE
To set with diamonds; to adorn; to enrich. [R.]Diamondizing of your subject. B. Jonson.
DIAMYLENE
A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H20, of the ethylene series, regardedas a polymeric form of amylene.
DIAN
, Diana. [Poetic]
DIANA
The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess whopresided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with theGreek goddess Artemis.And chaste Diana haunts the forest shade. Pope.Diana monkey (Zoรถl.), a handsome, white-bearded monkey of West Africa(Cercopithecus Diana).
DIANDRIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants having two stamens.
DIANDRIAN
Diandrous.
DIANDROUS
Of or pertaining to the class Diandria; having two stamens.
DIANIUM
Same as Columbium. [Obs.]
DIANOETIC
Pertaining to the discursive faculty, its acts or products.I would employ . . . dianoetic to denote the operation of thediscursive, elaborative, or comparative faculty. Sir W. Hamilton.
DIANOIALOGY
The science of the dianoetic faculties, and their operations.Sir W. Hamilton.
DIANTHUS
A genus of plants containing some of the most popular ofcultivated flowers, including the pink, carnation, and Sweet William.
DIAPASE
Same as Diapason. [Obs.]A tuneful diapase of pleasures. Spenser.
DIAPASM
Powdered aromatic herbs, sometimes made into little balls andstrung together. [Obs.]
DIAPASON
The octave, or interval which includes all the tones of thediatonic scale.
DIAPEDESIS
The passage of the corpuscular elements of the blood from theblood vessels into the surrounding tissues, without rupture of thewalls of the blood vessels.
DIAPENTE
The interval of the fifth.
DIAPER
Surface decoration of any sort which consists of the constantrepetition of one or more simple figures or units of design evenlyspaced.
DIAPERING
Same as Diaper, n.,
DIAPHANE
A woven silk stuff with transparent and colored figures; diaperwork.
DIAPHANED
Transparent or translucent. [R.]
DIAPHANEITY
The quality of being diaphanous; transparency; pellucidness.
DIAPHANIC
Having power to transmit light; transparent; diaphanous.
DIAPHANIE
The art of imitating
DIAPHANOMETER
An instrument for measuring the transparency of the air.
DIAPHANOSCOPE
A dark box constructed for viewing transparent pictures, withor without a lens.
DIAPHANOTYPE
A colored photograph produced by superimposing a translucentcolored positive over a strong uncolored one.
DIAPHANOUS
Allowing light to pass through, as porcelain; translucent ortransparent; pellucid; clear.Another cloud in the region of them, light enough to be fantastic anddiaphanous. Landor.
DIAPHANOUSLY
Translucently.
DIAPHEMETRIC
Relating to the measurement of the tactile sensibility ofparts; as, diaphemetric compasses. Dunglison.
DIAPHONICS
The doctrine of refracted sound; diacoustics.
DIAPHORESIS
Perspiration, or an increase of perspiration.
DIAPHORETIC
A medicine or agent which promotes perspiration.
DIAPHOTE
An instrument designed for transmitting pictures by telegraph.Fallows.
DIAPHRAGM
The muscular and tendinous partition separating the cavity ofthe chest from that of the abdomen; the midriff.
DIAPHRAGMATIC
Pertaining to a diaphragm; as, diaphragmatic respiration; thediaphragmatic arteries and nerves.
DIAPHYSIS
An abnormal prolongation of the axis of inflorescence.
DIAPNOIC
Slightly increasing an insensible perspiration; mildlydiaphoretic.-- n.
DIAPOPHYSICAL
Pertaining to a diapophysis.
DIAPOPHYSIS
The dorsal transverse, or tubercular, process of a vertebra.See Vertebra.
DIARCHY
A form of government in which the supreme power is vested intwo persons.
DIARIST
One who keeps a diary.
DIARTHRODIAL
Relating to diarthrosis, or movable articulations.
DIARTHROSIS
A form of articulation which admits of considerable motion; acomplete joint; abarticulation. See Articulation.
DIARY
A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; ajournal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, adiary of the weather; a physician's diary.
DIASPORE
A hydrate of alumina, often occurring in white lamellar masseswith brilliant pearly luster; -- so named on account of itsdecrepitating when heated before the blowpipe.
DIASTASE
A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable of converting starchand dextrin into sugar.
DIASTASIC
Pertaining to, or consisting of, diastase; as, diastasicferment.
DIASTASIS
A forcible of bones without fracture.
DIASTATIC
Relating to diastase; having the properties of diastase;effecting the conversion of starch into sugar.The influence of acids and alkalies on the diastatic action ofsaliva. Lauder Brunton.
DIASTEMA
A vacant space, or gap, esp. between teeth in a jaw.
DIASTER
A double star; -- applied to the nucleus of a cell, when,during cell division, the loops of the nuclear network separate intotwo groups, preparatory to the formation of two daughter nuclei. SeeKaryokinesis.
DIASTOLE
The rhythmical expansion or dilatation of the heart andarteries; -- correlative to systole, or contraction.
DIASTOLIC
Of or pertaining to diastole.
DIASTYLE
See under Intercolumniation.
DIATESSARON
The interval of a fourth.
DIATHERMAL
Freely permeable by radiant heat.
DIATHERMANISM
The doctrine or the phenomena of the transmission of radiantheat. Nichol.
DIATHERMANOUS
Having the property of transmitting radiant heat; diathermal; -- opposed to athermanous.
DIATHERMIC
Affording a free passage to heat; as, diathermic substances.Melloni.
DIATHERMOMETER
An instrument for examining the thermal resistance or heat-conducting power of liquids.
DIATHERMOUS
Same as Diathermal.
DIATHESIS
Bodily condition or constitution, esp. a morbid habit whichpredisposes to a particular disease, or class of diseases.
DIATHETIC
Pertaining to, or dependent on, a diathesis or specialconstitution of the body; as, diathetic disease.
DIATOM
One of the Diatomaceรฆ, a family of minute unicellular Algยจaving a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individualmultiplying by spontaneous division. By some authors diatoms arecalled Bacillariรฆ, but this word is not in general use.
DIATOMOUS
Having a single, distinct, diagonal cleavage; -- said ofcrystals. Mohs.
DIATONIC
Pertaining to the scale of eight tones, the eighth of which isthe octave of the first. Diatonic scale (Mus.), a scale consisting ofeight sounds with seven intervals, of which two are semitones andfive are whole tones; a modern major or minor scale, as distinguishedfrom the chromatic scale.
DIATONICALLY
In a diatonic manner.
DIATRIBE
A prolonged or exhaustive discussion; especially, anacrimonious or invective harangue; a strain of abusive or railinglanguage; a philippic.The ephemeral diatribe of a faction. John Morley.
DIATRIBIST
One who makes a diatribe or diatribes.
DIATRYMA
An extinct eocene bird from New Mexico, larger than theostrich.
DIAZO-
A combining form (also used adjectively), meaning pertainingto, or derived from, a series of compounds containing a radical oftwo nitrogen atoms, united usually to an aromatic radical; as, diazo-benzene, C6H5.N2.OH.
DIAZOTIZE
To subject to such reactions or processes that diazo compounds,or their derivatives, shall be produced by chemical exchange orsubstitution.
DIB
To dip. [Prov. Eng.] Walton.
DIBASIC
Having two acid hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basicatoms or radicals, in forming salts; bibasic; -- said of acids, asoxalic or sulphuric acids. Cf. Diacid, Bibasic.
DIBASICITY
The property or condition of being dibasic.
DIBBER
A dibble. Halliwell.
DIBBLE
A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in whichno set out plants or to plant seeds.
DIBBLER
One who, or that which, dibbles, or makes holes in the groundfor seed.
DIBRANCHIATA
An order of cephalopods which includes those with two gills, anapparatus for emitting an inky fluid, and either eight or tencephalic arms bearing suckers or hooks, as the octopi and squids. SeeCephalopoda.
DIBRANCHIATE
Having two gills.-- n.
DIBS
A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in theEast. Johnston.
DIBSTONE
A pebble used in a child's game called dibstones. Locke.
DIBUTYL
A liquid hydrocarbon, C8H18, of the marsh-gas series, being oneof several octanes, and consisting of two butyl radicals. Cf. Octane.
DICACIOUS
Talkative; pert; saucy. [Obs.]
DICACITY
Pertness; sauciness. [Obs.]
DICALCIC
Having two atoms or equivalents of calcium to the molecule.
DICARBONIC
Containing two carbon residues, or two carboxyl or radicals;as, oxalic acid is a dicarbonic acid.
DICAST
A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modernjuryman.
DICASTERY
A court of justice; judgment hall. [R.] J. S. Mill.
DICE
Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also,the game played with dice. See Die, n. Dice coal, a kind of coaleasily splitting into cubical fragments. Brande & C.
DICEBOX
A box from which dice are thrown in gaming. Thackeray.
DICENTRA
A genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred orheart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the moreshowy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis). [Corruptly written dielytra.]
DICEPHALOUS
Having two heads on one body; double-headed.
DICER
A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester.As false as dicers' oaths. Shak.
DICH
To ditch. [Obs.]
DICHASTIC
Capable of subdividing spontaneously.
DICHLAMYDEOUS
Having two coverings, a calyx and in corolla.
DICHLORIDE
Same as Bichloride.
DICHOGAMOUS
Manifesting dichogamy.
DICHOGAMY
The condition of certain species of plants, in which thestamens and pistil do not mature simultaneously, so that these plantscan never fertilize themselves.
DICHOTOMIST
One who dichotomizes. Bacon.
DICHOTOMIZE
To exhibit as a half disk. See Dichotomy,
DICHOTOMOUS
Regularly dividing by pairs from bottom to top; as, adichotomous stem.-- Di*chot"o*mous*ly, adv.
DICHOTOMY
That phase of the moon in which it appears bisected, or showsonly half its disk, as at the quadratures.
DICHROIC
Having the property of dichroism; as, a dichroic crystal.
DICHROISCOPE
Same as Dichroscope.
DICHROISM
The property of presenting different colors by transmittedlight, when viewed in two different directions, the colors beingunlike in the direction of unlike or unequal axes.
DICHROITE
Iolite; -- so called from its presenting two different colorswhen viewed in two different directions. See Iolite.
DICHROITIC
Dichroic.
DICHROMATE
A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acidradical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate.
DICHROMATIC
Having two color varieties, or two phases differing in color,independently of age or sex, as in certain birds and insects.
DICHROMATISM
The state of being dichromatic.
DICHROMIC
Furnishing or giving two colors; -- said of defective vision,in which all the compound colors are resolvable into two elementsinstead of three. Sir J. Herschel.
DICHROOUS
Dichroic.
DICHROSCOPE
An instrument for examining the dichroism of crystals.
DICHROSCOPIC
Pertaining to the dichroscope, or to observations with it.
DICKCISSEL
The American black-throated bunting (Spiza Americana).
DICKENS
The devil. [A vulgar euphemism.]I can not tell what the dickens his name is. Shak.
DICKER
To negotiate a dicker; to barter. [U.S.] "Ready to dicker. andto swap." Cooper.
DICLINIC
Having two of the intersections between the three axes oblique.See Crystallization.
DICLINOUS
Having the stamens and pistils in separate flowers. Gray.
DICOCCOUS
Composed pf two coherent, one-seeded carpels; as, a dicoccouscapsule.
DICOTYLEDON
A plant whose seeds divide into two seed lobes, or cotyledons,in germinating.
DICOTYLEDONOUS
Having two cotyledons or seed lobes; as, a dicotyledonousplant.
DICROTISM
A condition in which there are two beats or waves of thearterial pulse to each beat of the heart.
DICTA
See Dictum.
DICTAGRAPH
Var. of Dictograph.
DICTAMEN
A dictation or dictate. [R.] Falkland.
DICTAMNUS
A suffrutescent, D. Fraxinella (the only species), with strongperfume and showy flowers. The volatile oil of the leaves is highlyinflammable.
DICTAPHONE
A form of phonographic recorder and reproducer adapted for usein dictation, as in business.
DICTATE
A statement delivered with authority; an order; a command; anauthoritative rule, principle, or maxim; a prescription; as, listento the dictates of your conscience; the dictates of the gospel.I credit what the Grecian dictates say. Prior.
DICTATORIAN
Dictatorial. [Obs.]
DICTATORSHIP
The office, or the term of office, of a dictator; hence,absolute power.
DICTATORY
Dogmatical; overbearing; dictatorial. Milton.
DICTATRESS
A woman who dictates or commands.Earth's chief dictatress, ocean's mighty queen. Byron.
DICTATRIX
A dictatress.
DICTATURE
Office of a dictator; dictatorship. [R.] Bacon.
DICTION
Choice of words for the expression of ideas; the construction,disposition, and application of words in discourse, with regard toclearness, accuracy, variety, etc.; mode of expression; language; as,the diction of Chaucer's poems.His diction blazes up into a sudden explosion of prophetic grandeur.De Quincey.
DICTIONALRIAN
A lexicographer. [R.]
DICTOGRAPH
A telephonic instrument for office or other similar use, havinga sound-magnifying device enabling the ordinary mouthpiece to bedispensed with. Much use has been made of it for overhearing, or forrecording, conversations for the purpose of obtaining evidence foruse in litigation.
DICTYOGEN
A plant with netveined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos,belonging to the class Dictyogenรฆ, proposed by Lindley for the ordersDioscoreaceรฆ, Smilaceรฆ, Trilliaceรฆ, etc.
DICYANIDE
A compound of a binary type containing two cyanogen groups orradicals; -- called also bicyanide.
DICYEMATA
An order of worms parasitic in cephalopods. They are remarkablefor the extreme simplicity of their structure. The embryo exists intwo forms.
DICYEMID
Like or belonging to the Dicyemata.-- n.
DICYNODONT
One of a group of extinct reptiles having the jaws armed with ahorny beak, as in turtles, and in the genus Dicynodon, supportingalso a pair of powerful tusks. Their remains are found in triassicstrata of South Africa and India.
DID
of Do.
DIDACTIC
A treatise on teaching or education. [Obs.] Milton.
DIDACTICALLY
In a didactic manner.
DIDACTICISM
The didactic method or system.
DIDACTICITY
Aptitude for teaching. Hare.
DIDACTICS
The art or science of teaching.
DIDACTYL
An animal having only two digits.
DIDACTYLOUS
Having only two digits; two-toed.
DIDAL
A kind of triangular spade. [Obs.]
DIDAPPER
See Dabchick.
DIDASCALAR
Didascalic. [R.]
DIDASCALIC
Didactic; preceptive. [R.] Prior.
DIDDLE
To totter, as a child in walking. [Obs.] Quarles.
DIDDLER
A cheat. [Colloq.] Jeremy Diddler, a character in a play byJames Kenney, entitled "Raising the wind." The name is applied to anyneedy, tricky, constant borrower; a confidence man.
DIDELPHIA
The subclass of Mammalia which includes the marsupials. SeeMarsupialia.
DIDELPHIAN
Of or relating to the Didelphia.-- n.
DIDELPHIC
Having the uterus double; of or pertaining to the Didelphia.
DIDELPHID
Same as Didelphic.
DIDELPHOUS
Didelphic.
DIDELPHYC
Same as Didelphic.
DIDELPHYS
Formerly, any marsupial; but the term is now restricted to anAmerican genus which includes the opossums, of which there are manyspecies. See Opossum. [Written also Didelphis.] See Illustration inAppendix.  Cuvier.
DIDINE
Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo.
DIDO
A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper. To cut a dido, to play atrick; to cut a caper; -- perhaps so called from the trick of Dido,who having bought so much land as a hide would cover, is said to havecut it into thin strips long enough to inclose a spot for a citadel.
DIDONIA
The curve which on a given surface and with a given perimetercontains the greatest area. Tait.
DIDST
, the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do.
DIDUCEMENT
Diduction; separation into distinct parts. Bacon.
DIDUCTION
The act of drawing apart; separation.
DIDYM
See Didymium.
DIDYMIUM
A rare metallic substance usually associated with the metalcerium; -- hence its name. It was formerly supposed to be an element,but has since been found to consist of two simpler elementarysubstances, neodymium and praseodymium. See Neodymium, andPraseodymium.
DIDYMOUS
Growing in pairs or twins.
DIDYNAMIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants having four stamens disposed in pairsof unequal length.
DIDYNAMIAN
Didynamous.
DIDYNAMOUS
Of or pertaining to the Didynamia; containing four stamensdisposed in pairs of unequal length.
DIE
To disappear gradually in another surface, as where moldingsare lost in a sloped or curved face.
DIEDRAL
The same as Dihedral.
DIEGESIS
A narrative or history; a recital or relation.
DIELECTRIC
Any substance or medium that transmits the electric force by aprocess different from conduction, as in the phenomena of induction;a nonconductor. separating a body electrified by induction, from theelectrifying body.
DIELYTRA
See Dicentra.
DIENCEPHALON
The interbrain or thalamencephalon; -- sometimes abbreviated todien. See Thalamencephalon.
DIERESIS
Same as Diรฆresis.
DIES IRAE
Day of wrath; -- the name and beginning of a famous mediรฆvalLatin hymn on the Last Judgment.
DIES JURIDICUS
A court day.
DIES NON
A day on which courts are not held, as Sunday or any legalholiday.
DIESINKER
An engraver of dies for stamping coins, medals, etc.
DIESINKING
The process of engraving dies.
DIESIS
A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used inthe mathematical calculation of intervals.
DIESTOCK
A stock to hold the dies used for cutting screws.
DIET
A legislative or administrative assembly in Germany, Poland,and some other countries of Europe; a deliberative convention; acouncil; as, the Diet of Worms, held in 1521.
DIETARIAN
One who lives in accordance with prescribed rules for diet; adieter.
DIETARY
Pertaining to diet, or to the rules of diet.
DIETER
One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food,according to hygienic rules.
DIETETICALLY
In a dietetical manner.
DIETETICS
That part of the medical or hygienic art which relates to dietor food; rules for diet.To suppose that the whole of dietetics lies in determining whether ornot bread is more nutritive than potatoes. H. Spencer.
DIETETIST
A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure ofdiseases. Dunglison.
DIETHYLAMINE
A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having astrong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines. Cf.Methylamine.
DIETIC
Dietetic.
DIETICAL
Dietetic. [R.] Ferrand.
DIETINE
A subordinate or local assembly; a diet of inferior rank.
DIFFAME
Evil name; bad reputation; defamation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DIFFARREATION
A form of divorce, among the ancient Romans, in which a cakewas used. See Confarreation.
DIFFER
To cause to be different or unlike; to set at variance. [R.]But something 'ts that differs thee and me. Cowley.
DIFFERENCE
An addition to a coat of arms to distinguish the bearings oftwo persons, which would otherwise be the same. See Augmentation, andMarks of cadency, under Cadency.
DIFFERENTIA
The formal or distinguishing part of the essence of a species;the characteristic attribute of a species; specific difference.
DIFFERENTIAL
Of or pertaining to a differential, or to differentials.
DIFFERENTIALLY
In the way of differentiation.
DIFFERENTIATE
To obtain the differential, or differential coefficient, of;as, to differentiate an algebraic expression, or an equation.
DIFFERENTIATION
The act of distinguishing or describing a thing, by giving itsdifferent, or specific difference; exact definition or determination.
DIFFERENTIATOR
One who, or that which, differentiates.
DIFFERENTLY
In a different manner; variously.
DIFFERINGLY
In a differing or different manner. Boyle.
DIFFICILE
Difficult; hard to manage; stubborn. [Obs.] --Dif"fi*cile*ness, n. [Obs.] Bacon.
DIFFICILITATE
To make difficult. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
DIFFICULT
To render difficult; to impede; to perplex. [R.] Sir W. Temple.
DIFFICULTATE
To render difficult; to difficilitate. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
DIFFICULTLY
With difficulty. Cowper.
DIFFICULTNESS
Difficulty. [R.] Golding.
DIFFIDE
To be distrustful. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DIFFIDENCY
See Diffidence. [Obs.]
DIFFIDENTLY
In a diffident manner.To stand diffidently against each other with their thoughts in battlearray. Hobbes.
DIFFIND
To split. [Obs.] Bailey.
DIFFINE
To define. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DIFFINITIVE
Definitive; determinate; final. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.
DIFFISSION
Act of cleaving or splitting. [R.] Bailey.
DIFFLATION
A blowing apart or away. [Obs.] Bailey.
DIFFLUENT
Flowing apart or off; dissolving; not fixed. [R.] Bailey.
DIFFORM
Irregular in form; -- opposed to uniform; anomalous; hence,unlike; dissimilar; as, to difform corolla, the parts of which do notcorrespond in size or proportion; difform leaves.The unequal refractions of difform rays. Sir I. Newton.
DIFFORMITY
Irregularity of form; diversity of form; want of uniformity.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DIFFRACT
To break or separate into parts; to deflect, or decompose bydeflection, a
DIFFRACTION
The deflection and decomposition of light in passing by theedges of opaque bodies or through narrow slits, causing theappearance of parallel bands or fringes of prismatic colors, as bythe action of a grating of fine lines or bars.Remarked by Grimaldi (1665), and referred by him to a property oflight which he called diffraction. Whewell.Diffraction grating. (Optics) See under Grating.-- Diffraction spectrum. (Optics) See under Spectrum.
DIFFRACTIVE
That produces diffraction.
DIFFUSATE
Material which, in the process of catalysis, has diffused orpassed through the separating membrane.
DIFFUSE
To pour out and cause to spread, as a fluid; to cause to flowon all sides; to send out, or extend, in all directions; to spread;to circulate; to disseminate; to scatter; as to diffuse information.Thence diffuse His good to worlds and ages infinite. Milton.We find this knowledge diffused among all civilized nations. Whewell.
DIFFUSED
Spread abroad; dispersed; loose; flowing; diffuse.It grew to be a widely diffused opinion. Hawthorne.-- Dif*fus"ed*ly, adv.-- Dif*fus"ed*ness, n.
DIFFUSELY
In a diffuse manner.
DIFFUSENESS
The quality of being diffuse; especially, in writing, the useof a great or excessive number of word to express the meaning;copiousness; verbosity; prolixity.
DIFFUSER
One who, or that which, diffuses.
DIFFUSIBILITY
The quality of being diffusible; capability of being poured orspread out.
DIFFUSIBLE
Capable of passing through animal membranes by osmosis.
DIFFUSIBLENESS
Diffusibility.
DIFFUSION
The act of passing by osmosis through animal membranes, as inthe distribution of poisons, gases, etc., through the body. Unlikeabsorption, diffusion may go on after death, that is, after the bloodceases to circulate.
DIFFUSIVE
Having the quality of diffusing; capable of spreading every wayby flowing; spreading widely; widely reaching; copious; diffuse. "Aplentiful and diffusive perfume." Hare.
DIFFUSIVELY
In a diffusive manner.
DIFFUSIVENESS
The quality or state of being diffusive or diffuse;extensiveness; expansion; dispersion. Especially of style:Diffuseness; want of conciseness; prolixity.The fault that I find with a modern legend, it its diffusiveness.Addison.
DIFFUSIVITY
Tendency to become diffused; tendency, as of heat, to becomeequalized by spreading through a conducting medium.
DIG
To take ore from its bed, in distinction from makingexcavations in search of ore.
DIGAMIST
One who marries a second time; a deuterogamist. Hammond.
DIGAMMA
A letter (
DIGAMOUS
Pertaining to a second marriage, that is, one after the deathof the first wife or the first husband.
DIGAMY
Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy. [R.]
DIGENEA
A division of Trematoda in which alternate generations occur,the immediate young not resembling their parents.
DIGENESIS
The faculty of multiplying in two ways; -- by ova fecundated byspermatic fluid, and asexually, as by buds. See Parthenogenesis.
DIGENOUS
Sexually reproductive. Digenous reproduction. (Biol.) Same asDigenesis.
DIGERENT
Digesting. [Obs.] Bailey.
DIGEST
To separate (the food) in its passage through the alimentarycanal into the nutritive and nonnutritive elements; to prepare, bythe action of the digestive juices, for conversion into blood; toconvert into chyme.
DIGESTEDLY
In a digested or well-arranged manner; methodically.
DIGESTIBILITY
The quality of being digestible.
DIGESTIBLE
Capable of being digested.
DIGESTIBLENESS
The quality of being digestible; digestibility.
DIGESTION
The conversion of food, in the stomach and intestines, intosoluble and diffusible products, capable of being absorbed by theblood.
DIGESTIVE
Pertaining to digestion; having the power to cause or promotedigestion; as, the digestive ferments.Digestive cheese and fruit there sure will be. B. Jonson.Digestive apparatus, the organs of food digestion, esp. thealimentary canal and glands connected with it.-- Digestive salt, the chloride of potassium.
DIGESTOR
See Digester.
DIGESTURE
Digestion. [Obs.] Harvey.
DIGGABLE
Capable of being dug.
DIGGER
One who, or that which, digs. Digger wasp (Zoรถl.), any one ofthe fossorial Hymenoptera.
DIGGERS
A degraded tribe of California Indians; -- so called from theirpractice of digging roots for food.
DIGGING
Places where ore is dug; especially, certain localities inCalifornia, Australia, and elsewhere, at which gold is obtained.[Recent]
DIGHTER
One who dights. [Obs.]
DIGIT
One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger ortoe.The ruminants have the "cloven foot," i. e., two hoofed digits oneach foot. Owen.
DIGITAL
Of or performance to the fingers, or to digits; done with thefingers; as, digital compression; digital examination.
DIGITALIS
A genus of plants including the foxglove.
DIGITATE
To point out as with the finger. [R.] Robinson (Eudoxa).
DIGITATION
A division into fingers or fingerlike processes; also, afingerlike process.
DIGITIFORM
Formed like a finger or fingers; finger-shaped; as, adigitiform root.
DIGITIGRADE
Walking on the toes; -- distinguished from plantigrade.
DIGITIPARTITE
Parted like the fingers.
DIGITIZE
To finger; as, to digitize a pen. [R.] Sir T. Browne. computersto convert (information, a signal, an image) into a form expressiblein binary notation
DIGITORIUM
A small dumb keyboard used by pianists for exercising thefingers; -- called also dumb piano.
DIGITULE
A little finger or toe, or something resembling one.
DIGLADIATE
To fight like gladiators; to contend fiercely; to disputeviolently. [Obs.]Digladiating like รschines and Demosthenes. Hales.
DIGLADIATION
Act of digladiating. [Obs.] "Sore digladiations and contest."Evelyn.
DIGLOTTISM
Bilingualism. [R.] Earle.
DIGLYPH
A projecting face like the triglyph, but having only twochannels or grooves sunk in it.
DIGNATION
The act of thinking worthy; honor. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
DIGNIFICATION
The act of dignifying; exaltation.
DIGNIFIED
Marked with dignity; stately; as, a dignified judge.
DIGNIFY
To invest with dignity or honor; to make illustrious; to givedistinction to; to exalt in rank; to honor.Your worth will dignity our feast. B. Jonson.
DIGNITARY
One who possesses exalted rank or holds a position of dignityor honor; especially, one who holds an ecclesiastical rank above thatof a parochial priest or clergyman.
DIGNOTION
Distinguishing mark; diagnostic. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DIGONOUS
Having two angles. Smart.
DIGRAM
A digraph.
DIGRAPH
Two signs or characters combined to express a singlearticulated sound; as ea in head, or th in bath.
DIGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to a digraph. H. Sweet.
DIGRESS
Digression. [Obs.] Fuller.
DIGRESSION
The elongation, or angular distance from the sun; -- saidchiefly of the inferior planets. [R.]
DIGRESSIONAL
Pertaining to, or having the character of, a digression;departing from the main purpose or subject. T. Warton.
DIGRESSIVE
Departing from the main subject; partaking of the nature ofdigression. Johnson.
DIGRESSIVELY
By way of digression.
DIGUE
A bank; a dike. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple.
DIGYNIA
A Linnรฆan order of plants having two styles.
DIHEDRAL
Having two plane faces; as, the dihedral summit of a crystal.Dihedral angle, the angular space contained between planes whichintersect. It is measured by the angle made by any two lines at rightangles to the two planes.
DIHEDRON
A figure with two sides or surfaces. Buchanan.
DIIAMB
A diiambus.
DIIAMBUS
A double iambus; a foot consisting of two iambuses (
DIIODIDE
A compound of a binary type containing two atoms of iodine; --called also biniodide.
DIISATOGEN
A red crystalline nitrogenous substance or artificialproduction, which by reduction passes directly to indigo.
DIJUDICANT
One who dijudicates. [R.] Wood.
DIJUDICATE
To make a judicial decision; to decide; to determine. [R.]Hales.
DIJUDICATION
The act of dijudicating; judgment. [R.] Cockeram.
DIKA
A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the IrvingiaBarteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- calledalso dika bread.
DIKE
A wall-like mass of mineral matter, usually an intrusion ofigneous rocks, filling up rents or fissures in the original strata.
DILACERATE
To rend asunder; to tear to pieces. Sir T. Browne.
DILACERATION
The act of rending asunder. Arbuthnot.
DILANIATE
To rend in pieces; to tear. [R.] Howell.
DILANIATION
A rending or tearing in pieces; dilaceration. [R.]
DILAPIDATE
To get out of repair; to fall into partial ruin; to becomedecayed; as, the church was suffered to dilapidate. Johnson.
DILAPIDATED
Decayed; fallen into partial ruin; injured by bad usage orneglect.A deserted and dilapidated buildings. Cooper.
DILAPIDATION
The pulling down of a building, or suffering it to fall or bein a state of decay. Burrill.
DILAPIDATOR
One who causes dilapidation. Strype.
DILATABILITY
The quality of being dilatable, or admitting expansion; --opposed to contractibility. Ray.
DILATABLE
Capable of expansion; that may be dilated; -- opposed tocontractible; as, the lungs are dilatable by the force of air; air isdilatable by heat.
DILATATION
A dilation or enlargement of a canal or other organ.
DILATATOR
A muscle which dilates any part; a dilator.
DILATE
Extensive; expanded. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
DILATED
Widening into a lamina or into lateral winglike appendages.
DILATEDLY
In a dilated manner. Feltham.
DILATER
One who, or that which, dilates, expands, o r enlarges.
DILATION
Delay. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DILATIVE
Causing dilation; tending to dilate, on enlarge; expansive.Coleridge.
DILATOMETER
An instrument for measuring the dilatation or expansion of asubstance, especially of a fluid.
DILATOR
A muscle that dilates any part.
DILATORILY
With delay; tardily.
DILATORINESS
The quality of being dilatory; lateness; slowness; tardiness;sluggishness.
DILDO
A burden in popular songs. [Obs.]Delicate burthens of dildos and fadings. Shak.
DILECTION
Love; choice. [Obs.] T. Martin.
DILEMMA
An argument which presents an antagonist with two or morealternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whicheveralternative he chooses.
DILETTANT
Of or pertaining to dilettanteism; amateur; as, dilettantspeculation. Carlyle.
DILETTANTE
An admirer or lover of the fine arts; popularly, an amateur;especially, one who follows an art or a branch of knowledge,desultorily, or for amusement only.
DILETTANTEISH
Somewhat like a dilettante.
DILETTANTEISM
The state or quality of being a dilettante; the desultorypursuit of art, science, or literature.
DILETTANTISH
Dilettanteish.
DILETTANTISM
Same as Dilettanteism. F. Harrison.
DILIGENCE
Process by which persons, lands, or effects are seized fordebt; process for enforcing the attendance of witnesses or theproduction of writings. To do one's diligence, give diligence, usediligence, to exert one's self; to make interested and earnestendeavor.And each of them doth all his diligence To do unto the festรฉreverence. Chaucer.
DILIGENCY
Diligence; care; persevering endeavor. [Obs.] Milton.
DILIGENTLY
In a diligent manner; not carelessly; not negligently; withindustry or assiduity.Ye diligently keep commandments of the Lord your God. Deut. vi. 17.
DILL
An herb (Peucedanum graveolens), the seeds of which aremoderately warming, pungent, and aromatic, and were formerly used asa soothing medicine for children; -- called also dill-seed. Dr.Prior.
DILLING
A darling; a favorite. [Obs.]Whilst the birds billing, Each one with his dilling. Drayton.
DILLUING
A process of sorting ore by washing in a hand sieve. [Writtenalso deluing.]
DILLY
A kind of stagecoach. "The Derby dilly." J. H. Frere.
DILLY-DALLY
To loiter or trifle; to waste time.
DILOGICAL
Ambiguous; of double meaning. [Obs.] T. Adams.
DILOGY
An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used anequivocal sense. [R.]
DILUCID
Clear; lucid. [Obs.] Bacon.-- Di*lu"cid*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Di`lu*cid"i*ty, n. [Obs.]
DILUCIDATE
To elucidate. [Obs.] Boyle.
DILUCIDATION
The act of making clear. [Obs.] Boyle.
DILUENT
Diluting; making thinner or weaker by admixture, esp. of water.Arbuthnot.
DILUTE
To become attenuated, thin, or weak; as, it dilutes easily.
DILUTED
Reduced in strength; thin; weak.-- Di*lut"ed*ly, adv.
DILUTENESS
The quality or state of being dilute. Bp. Wilkins.
DILUTER
One who, or that which, dilutes or makes thin, more liquid, orweaker.
DILUTION
The act of diluting, or the state of being diluted. Arbuthnot.
DILUVIAL
Effected or produced by a flood or deluge of water; -- said ofcoarse and imperfectly stratified deposits along ancient or existingwater courses. Similar unstratified deposits were formed by theagency of ice. The time of deposition has been called the Diluvianepoch.
DILUVIALIST
One who explains geological phenomena by the Noachian deluge.Lyell.
DILUVIAN
Of or pertaining to a deluge, esp. to the Noachian deluge;diluvial; as, of diluvian origin. Buckland.
DILUVIATE
To run as a flood. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
DILUVIUM
A deposit of superficial loam, sand, gravel, stones, etc.,caused by former action of flowing waters, or the melting of glacialice.
DIM
To grow dim. J. C. Shairp.
DIM-SIGHTED
Having dim sight; lacking perception.-- Dim"-sight`ed*ness, n.
DIMBLE
A bower; a dingle. [Obs.] Drayton.
DIME
A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents;the tenth of a dollar. Dime novel, a novel, commonly sensational andtrashy, which is sold for a dime, or ten cents.
DIMENSION
The degree of manifoldness of a quantity; as, time is quantityhaving one dimension; volume has three dimensions, relative toextension.
DIMENSIONAL
Pertaining to dimension.
DIMENSIONED
Having dimensions. [R.]
DIMENSIONLESS
Without dimensions; having no appreciable or noteworthy extent.Milton.
DIMENSITY
Dimension. [R.] Howell.
DIMENSIVE
Without dimensions; marking dimensions or the limits.Who can draw the soul's dimensive lines Sir J. Davies.
DIMERAN
One of the Dimera.
DIMEROUS
Composed of, or having, two parts of each kind.
DIMETER
Having two poetical measures or meters.-- n.
DIMETHYL
Ethane; -- sometimes so called because regarded as consistingof two methyl radicals. See Ethane.
DIMETRIC
Same as Tetragonal. Dana.
DIMICATION
A fight; contest. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DIMIDIATE
To represent the half of; to halve.
DIMIDIATION
The act of dimidiating or halving; the state of beingdimidiate.
DIMINISH
To make smaller by a half step; to make (an interval) less thanminor; as, a diminished seventh.
DIMINISHABLE
Capable of being diminished or lessened.
DIMINISHER
One who, or that which, diminishes anything. Clerke (1637).
DIMINISHINGLY
In a manner to diminish.
DIMINISHMENT
Diminution. [R.] Cheke.
DIMINUENDO
In a gradually diminishing manner; with abatement of tone;decrescendo; -- expressed on the staff by Dim., or Dimin., or thesign.
DIMINUENT
Lessening. Bp. Sanderson.
DIMINUTAL
Indicating or causing diminution. Earle.
DIMINUTE
Small; diminished; diminutive. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
DIMINUTELY
Diminutively. [Obs.]
DIMINUTION
Omission, inaccuracy, or defect in a record.
DIMINUTIVAL
Indicating diminution; diminutive. "Diminutival forms" [ofwords]. Earle.-- n.
DIMINUTIVE
A derivative from a noun, denoting a small or a young object ofthe same kind with that denoted by the primitive; as, gosling,eaglet, lambkin.Babyisms and dear diminutives. Tennyson.
DIMINUTIVELY
In a diminutive manner.
DIMINUTIVENESS
The quality of being diminutive; smallness; littleness;minuteness.
DIMISH
See Dimmish.
DIMISSION
Leave to depart; a dismissing. [Obs.] Barrow.
DIMISSORY
Sending away; dismissing to another jurisdiction; grantingleave to depart. Letters dimissory (Eccl.), letters given by a bishopdismissing a person who is removing into another diocese, andrecommending him for reception there. Hook.
DIMIT
To dismiss, let go, or release. [Obs.]
DIMITY
A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings,and formerly used for women's under-garments. It is of many patterns,both plain and twilled, and occasionally is printed in colors.
DIMLY
In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; withimperfect sight.
DIMORPH
Either one of the two forms of a dimorphous substance; as,calcite and aragonite are dimorphs.
DIMORPHIC
Having the property of dimorphism; dimorphous.
DIMORPHISM
Difference of form between members of the same species, as whena plant has two kinds of flowers, both hermaphrodite (as in thepartridge berry), or when there are two forms of one or both sexes ofthe same species of butterfly.Dimorphism is the condition of the appearance of the same speciesunder two dissimilar forms. Darwin.
DIMORPHOUS
Characterized by dimorphism; occurring under two distinctforms, not dependent on sex; dimorphic.
DIMPLE
To form dimples; to sink into depressions or littleinequalities.And smiling eddies dimpled on the main. Dryden.
DIMPLEMENT
The state of being dimpled, or marked with gentle depressions.[R.]The ground's most gentle dimplement. Mrs. Browning.
DIMPLY
Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimplypool. Thomson.
DIMYARIAN
Like or pertaining to the Dimya.-- n.
DIMYARY
Same as Dimyarian.
DIN
Loud, confused, harsh noise; a loud, continuous, rattling orclanging sound; clamor; roar.Think you a little din can daunt mine ears Shak.He knew the battle's din afar. Sir W. Scott.The dust and din and steam of town. Tennyson.
DINAPHTHYL
A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C20H14, obtained fromnaphthylene, and consisting of a doubled naphthylene radical.
DINARCHY
See Diarchy.
DINE
To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner.Now can I break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep. Shak.To dine with Duke Humphrey, to go without dinner; -- a phrase commonin Elizabethan literature, said to be from the practice of the poorgentry, who beguiled the dinner hour by a promenade near the tomb ofHumphrey, Duke of Gloucester, in Old Saint Paul's.
DINER
One who dines.
DINER-OUT
One who often takes his dinner away from home, or in company.A brilliant diner-out, though but a curate. Byron.
DINETICAL
Revolving on an axis. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DING
A thump or stroke, especially of a bell.
DINGDONG
An attachment to a clock by which the quarter hours are struckupon bells of different tones.
DINGDONG THEORY
The theory which maintains that the primitive elements oflanguage are reflex expressions induced by sensory impressions; thatis, as stated by Max Mรผller, the creative faculty gave to eachgeneral conception as it thrilled for the first time through thebrain a phonetic expression; -- jocosely so called from the analogyof the sound of a bell induced by the stroke of the clapper.
DINGILY
In a dingy manner.
DINGINESS
Quality of being dingy; a dusky hue.
DINGLE
A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and emboweredvalley.
DINGLE-DANGLE
In a dangling manner.
DINGO
A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introducedat a very early period. It has a wolflike face, bushy tail, and areddish brown color.
DINGTHRIFT
A spendthrift. [Obs.]Wilt thou, therefore, a drunkard be, A dingthrift and a knave Drant.
DINGY
Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty."Scraps of dingy paper." Macaulay.
DINICHTHYS
A genus of large extinct Devonian ganoid fishes. In some partsof Ohio remains of the Dinichthys are abundant, indicating animalstwenty feet in length.
DINING
from Dine, a.
DINK
Trim; neat. [Scot.] Burns.-- Dink"ly, adv.
DINMONT
A wether sheep between one and two years old. [Scot.]
DINNERLESS
Having no dinner. Fuller.
DINNERLY
Of or pertaining to dinner. [R.]The dinnerly officer. Copley.
DINOCERAS
A genus of large extinct Eocene mammals from Wyoming; -- calledalso Uintatherium. See Illustration in Appendix.
DINORNIS
A genus of extinct, ostrichlike birds of gigantic size, whichformerly inhabited New Zealand. See Moa. [Written also Deinornis.]
DINOSAURIA
An order of extinct mesozoic reptiles, mostly of large size(whence the name). Notwithstanding their size, they present birdlikecharacters in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind limbs. Somewalked on their three-toed hind feet, thus producing the large "birdtracks," so-called, of mesozoic sandstones; others were five-toed andquadrupedal. See Illust. of Compsognathus, also Illustration ofDinosaur in Appendix.
DINOXIDE
Same as Dioxide.
DINSOME
Full of din. [Scot.] Burns.
DINT
To make a mark or cavity on or in, by a blow or by pressure; todent. Donne. Tennyson.
DINUMERATION
Enumeration. [Obs.] Bullokar.
DIOCESAN
Of or pertaining to a diocese; as, diocesan missions.
DIOCESE
The circuit or extent of a bishop's jurisdiction; the districtin which a bishop exercises his ecclesiastical authority.[Frequently, but improperly, spelt diocess.]
DIOCESENER
One who belongs to a diocese. [Obs.] Bacon.
DIODON
A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth ofeach jaw united into a single beaklike plate. They are able toinflate the body by taking in air or water, and, hence, are calledglobefishes, swellfishes, etc. fishes, and sea hedgehogs.
DIODONT
Like or pertaining to the genus Diodon.-- n.
DIOECIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants having the stamens and pistils ondifferent plants.
DIOECIOUSLY
In a dioecious manner. Dioeciously hermaphrodite (Bot.), havingflowers structurally perfect, but practically dioecious, -- those onone plant producing no pollen, and those on another no ovules.
DIOECIOUSNESS
The state or quality of being dioecious.
DIOECISM
The condition of being dioecious.
DIOGENES
A Greek Cynic philosopher (412-323 B. C.) who lived much inAthens and was distinguished for contempt of the common aims andconditions of life, and for sharp, caustic sayings. Diogenes' crab(Zoรถl.), a species of terrestrial hermit crabs (Cenobita Diogenes),abundant in the West Indies and often destructive to crops.-- Diogenes' tub, the tub which the philosopher Diogenes is said tohave carried about with him as his house, in which he lived.
DIOICOUS
See Dioecious.
DIOMEDEA
A genus of large sea birds, including the albatross. SeeAlbatross.
DIONAEA
An insectivorous plant. See Venus's flytrap.
DIONYSIA
Any of the festivals held in honor of the Olympian godDionysus. They correspond to the Roman Bacchanalia; the greaterDionysia were held at Athens in March or April, and were celebratedwith elaborate performances of both tragedies and comedies.
DIONYSIAC
Of or pertaining to Dionysus or to the Dionysia; Bacchic; as, aDionysiac festival; the Dionysiac theater at Athens.
DIONYSIAN
Relating to Dionysius, a monk of the 6th century; as, theDionysian, or Christian, era. Dionysian period, a period of 532years, depending on the cycle of the sun, or 28 years, and the cycleof the moon, or 19 years; -- sometimes called the Greek paschalcycle, or Victorian period.
DIOPHANTINE
Originated or taught by Diophantus, the Greek writer onalgebra. Diophantine analysis (Alg.), that branch of indeterminateanalysis which has for its object the discovery of rational valuesthat satisfy given equations containing squares or cubes; as, forexample, to find values of x and y which make x2 + y2 an exactsquare.
DIOPSIDE
A crystallized variety of pyroxene, of a clear, grayish greencolor; mussite.
DIOPTASE
A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring in emerald-greencrystals.
DIOPTRE
A unit employed by oculists in numbering glasses according tothe metric system; a refractive power equal to that of a glass whoseprincipal focal distance is one meter.
DIOPTRIC
Of or pertaining to the dioptre, or to the metric system ofnumbering glasses.-- n.
DIOPTRICS
The science of the refraction of light; that part ofgeometrical optics which treats of the laws of the refraction oflight in passing from one medium into another, or through differentmediums, as air, water, or glass, and esp. through different lenses;-- distinguished from catoptrics, which refers to reflected light.
DIOPTRY
A dioptre.
DIORAMIC
Pertaining to a diorama.
DIORISM
Definition; logical direction. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DIORISTIC
Distinguishing; distinctive; defining. [R.] --Di`o*ris"tic*al*ly, adv. [R.] Dr. H. More.
DIORITE
An igneous, crystalline in structure, consisting essentially ofa triclinic feldspar and hornblende. It includes part of what wascalled greenstone.
DIORITIC
Containing diorite.
DIORTHOTIC
Relating to the correcting or straightening out of something;corrective.
DIOSCOREA
A genus of plants. See Yam.
DIOTA
A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears.
DIOXINDOL
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance obtained by thereduction of isatin. It is a member of the indol series; -- hence itsname.
DIPASCHAL
Including two passovers. Carpenter.
DIPCHICK
See Dabchick.
DIPETALOUS
Having two petals; two-petaled.
DIPHENYL
A white crystalline substance, C6H5.C6H5, obtained by leadingbenzene through a heated iron tube. It consists of two benzene orphenyl radicals united.
DIPHTHERIA
A very dangerous contagious disease in which the air passages,and especially the throat, become coated with a false membrane,produced by the solidification of an inflammatory exudation. Cf.Group.
DIPHTHONG
To form or pronounce as a diphthong; diphthongize. [R.]
DIPHTHONGAL
Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of adiphthong.-- Diph*thon"gal*ly, adv.
DIPHTHONGALIZE
To make into a diphthong; to pronounce as a diphthong.
DIPHTHONGATION
See Diphthongization.
DIPHTHONGIC
Of the nature of diphthong; diphthongal. H. Sweet.
DIPHTHONGIZATION
The act of changing into a diphthong. H. Sweet.
DIPHTHONGIZE
To change into a diphthong, as by affixing another vowel to asimple vowel. "The diphthongized long vowels." H. Sweet.
DIPHYCERCAL
Having the tail fin divided into two equal parts by thenotochord, or end of the vertebral column; protocercal. SeeProtocercal.
DIPHYGENIC
Having two modes of embryonic development.
DIPHYLLOUS
Having two leaves, as a calyx, etc.
DIPHYODONT
Having two successive sets of teeth (deciduous and permanent),one succeeding the other; as, a diphyodont mammal; diphyodontdentition; -- opposed to monophyodont.-- n.
DIPHYOZOOID
One of the free-swimming sexual zooids of Siphonophora.
DIPLANAR
Of or pertaining to two planes.
DIPLEIDOSCOPE
An instrument for determining the time of apparent noon. Itconsists of two mirrors and a plane glass disposed in the form of aprism, so that, by the reflections of the sun's rays from theirsurfaces, two images are presented to the eye, moving in oppositedirections, and coinciding at the instant the sun's center is on themeridian.
DIPLEX
Pertaining to the sending of two messages in the same directionat the same time. Diplex and contraplex are the two varieties ofduplex.
DIPLOBLASTIC
Characterizing the ovum when it has two primary germinallayers.
DIPLOCARDIAC
Having the heart completely divided or double, one sidesystemic, the other pulmonary.
DIPLOCOCCUS
A form of micrococcus in which cocci are united in a binarymanner. See Micrococcus.
DIPLOE
The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the platesof the skull.
DIPLOETIC
Diploic.
DIPLOGENIC
Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing twosubstances. Wright.
DIPLOGRAPH
An instrument used for double writing, as one for producingembossed writing for the blind and ordinary writing at the same time.-- Dip`lo*graph"ic*al (#), a. -- Dip*log"ra*phy (#), n.
DIPLOIC
Of or pertaining to the diploรซ.
DIPLOID
A solid bounded by twenty-four similar quadrilateral faces. Itis a hemihedral form of the hexoctahedron.
DIPLOMA
A letter or writing, usually under seal, conferring someprivilege, honor, or power; a document bearing record of a degreeconferred by a literary society or educational institution.
DIPLOMACY
A diplomatist.
DIPLOMATE
To invest with a title o [R.] Wood.
DIPLOMATIAL
Diplomatic. [R.]
DIPLOMATIC
A minister, official agent, or envoy to a foreign court; adiplomatist.
DIPLOMATICALLY
According to the rules of diplomacy; in the manner of adiplomatist; artfully.
DIPLOMATICS
The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancientwritings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography.
DIPLOMATISM
Diplomacy. [R.]
DIPLOMATIST
A person employed in, or skilled in, diplomacy; a diplomat.In ability, Avaux had no superior among the numerous able diplomaticswhom his country then possessed. Macaulay.
DIPLOPOD
One of the Diplopoda.
DIPLOPODA
An order of myriapods having two pairs of legs on each segment;the Chilognatha.
DIPLOSTEMONOUS
Having twice as many stamens as petals, as the geranium. R.Brown.
DIPLOSTEMONY
The condition of being diplostemonous.
DIPNEUMONA
A group of spiders having only two lunglike organs. [Writtenalso Dipneumones.]
DIPNOI
A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodusand Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to theAmphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils openinside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix.
DIPODY
Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.Hadley.Trochaic, iambic, and anapestic verses . . . are measured bydipodies. W. W. Goodwin.
DIPOLAR
Having two poles, as a magnetic bar.
DIPRISMATIC
Doubly prismatic.
DIPROPARGYL
A pungent, mobile, volatile liquid, C6H6, produced artificiallyfrom certain allyl derivatives. Though isomeric with benzine, it isvery different in its chemical relations. Called also dipropinyl.
DIPROPYL
One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting oftwo propyl radicals. See Hexane.
DIPROTODON
An extinct Quaternary marsupial from Australia, about as largeas the hippopotamus; -- so named because of its two large frontteeth. See Illustration in Appendix.
DIPSAS
A genus of harmless colubrine snakes.
DIPSETIC
Tending to produce thirst. Wright.
DIPSOMANIA
A morbid an uncontrollable craving (often periodic) for drink,esp. for alcoholic liquors; also improperly used to denote acute andchronic alcoholism.
DIPSOMANIAC
One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks.
DIPSOMANIACAL
Of or pertaining to dipsomania.
DIPSOSIS
Excessive thirst produced by disease.
DIPTERA
An extensive order of insects having only two functional wingsand two balancers, as the house fly, mosquito, etc. They have asuctorial proboscis, often including two pairs of sharp organs(mandibles and maxillรฆ) with which they pierce the skin of animals.They undergo a complete metamorphosis, their larvรฆ (called maggots)being usually without feet.
DIPTERAL
Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.
DIPTERAN
An insect of the order Diptera.
DIPTEROCARPUS
A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species ofwhich produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil. The fruit hastwo long wings.
DIPTEROUS
Having two wings, as certain insects; belonging to the orderDiptera.
DIPTERYGIAN
Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes.
DIPTOTE
A noun which has only two cases. Andrews.
DIPYRE
A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the doubleeffect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering itphosphorescent.
DIPYRENOUS
Containing two stones or nutlets.
DIPYRIDINE
A polymeric form of pyridine, C10H10N2, obtained as a colorlessoil by the action of sodium on pyridine.
DIPYRIDYL
A crystalline nitrogenous base, C10H8N2, obtained by thereduction of pyridine.
DIRADIATION
The emission and diffusion of rays of light.
DIRECT
In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from westto east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of themotion of a celestial body. Direct action. (Mach.) See Direct-acting.-- Direct discourse (Gram.), the language of any one quoted withoutchange in its form; as, he said "I can not come;" -- correlative toindirect discourse, in which there is change of form; as, he saidthat he could not come. They are often called respectively by theirLatin names, oratio directa, and oratio obliqua.-- Direct evidence (Law), evidence which is positive or notinferential; -- opposed to circumstantial, or indirect, evidence.-- This distinction, however, is merely formal, since there is nodirect evidence that is not circumstantial, or dependent oncircumstances for its credibility. Wharton.-- Direct examination (Law), the first examination of a witness inthe orderly course, upon the merits. Abbott.-- Direct fire (Mil.), fire, the direction of which is perpendicularto the line of troops or to the parapet aimed at.-- Direct process (Metal.), one which yields metal in workingcondition by a single process from the ore. Knight.-- Direct tax, a tax assessed directly on lands, etc., and polls,distinguished from taxes on merchandise, or customs, and from excise.
DIRECT ACTION
See Syndicalism, below.
DIRECT NOMINATION
The nomination or designation of candidates for public officeby direct popular vote rather than through the action of a conventionor body of elected nominating representatives or delegates. The termis applied both to the nomination of candidates without anynominating convention, and, loosely, to the nomination effected, asin the case of candidates for president or senator of the UnitedStates, by the election of nominating representatives pledged orinstructed to vote for certain candidates dssignated by popular vote.
DIRECT PRIMARY
A primary by which direct nominations of candidates for officeare made.
DIRECT-ACTING
Acting directly, as one part upon another, without theintervention of other working parts. Direct-acting steam engine, onein which motion is transmitted to the crank without the interventionof a beam or lever; -- also called direct-action steam engine.-- Direct-acting steam pump, one in which the steam piston rod isdirectly connected with the pump rod; -- also called direct-actionsteam pump.
DIRECT-COUPLED
Coupled without intermediate connections, as an engine and adynamo.
DIRECTER
One who directs; a director. Directer plane (Geom.), the planeto which all right-lined elements in a warped surface are parallel.
DIRECTION
The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary verticalaxis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given whenthe plane of sight passes through the object. Wilhelm.
DIRECTNESS
The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness;immediateness.
DIRECTOIRE STYLE
A style of dress prevalent at the time of the French Directory,characterized by great extravagance of design and imitating the Greekand Roman costumes.
DIRECTOR
A part of a machine or instrument which directs its motion oraction.
DIRECTORATE
The office of director; also, a body of directors takenjointly.
DIRECTORSHIP
The condition or office of a director; directorate.
DIRECTORY
Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial.
DIRECTRESS
A woman who directs. Bp. Hurd.
DIREFUL
Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direfulfiend; a direful day.-- Dire"ful*ly, adv.-- Dire"ful*ness, n.
DIRELY
In a dire manner. Drayton.
DIREMPT
Divided; separated. [Obs.] Stow.
DIREMPTION
A tearing apart; violent separation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DIRENESS
Terribleness; horror; woefulness. Shak.
DIREPTION
The act of plundering, despoiling, or snatching away. [R.]Speed.
DIREPTITIOUS
Characterized by direption. [R.] Encyc. Dict.
DIREPTITIOUSLY
With plundering violence; by violent injustice. [R.] Strype.
DIRGE
A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeralrites; a funeral hymn.The raven croaked, and hollow shrieks of owls Sung dirges at herfuneral. Ford.
DIRGEFUL
Funereal; moaning.Soothed sadly by the dirgeful wind. Coleridge.
DIRIGE
A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being thefirst antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the firstword; a dirge.Evensongs and placebo and dirige. Wyclif.Resort, I pray you, unto my sepulture To sing my dirige with greatdevotion. Lamentation of Mary Magdalene.
DIRIGENT
Directing. Baxter.
DIRIGIBLE
Capable of being directed; steerable; as, a dirigible balloon.
DIRIMENT
Absolute. Diriment impediment (R. C. Ch.), an impediment thatnullifies marriage.
DIRK
A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by theScottish Highlander. Dirk knife, a clasp knife having a large,dirklike blade.
DIRKNESS
Darkness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DIRL
To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
DIRT
To make foul of filthy; to dirty. Swift.
DIRTILY
In a dirty manner; foully; nastily; filthily; meanly; sordidly.
DIRTINESS
The state of being dirty; filthiness; foulness; nastiness;baseness; sordidness.
DIRUPTION
Disruption.
DIS
The god Pluto. Shak.
DIS-
.
DISABLE
Lacking ability; unable. [Obs.] "Our disable and unactiveforce." Daniel.
DISABLEMENT
Deprivation of ability; incapacity. Bacon.
DISABUSE
To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage fromfallacy or deception; to set right.To undeceive and disabuse the people. South.If men are now sufficiently enlightened to disabuse themselves orartifice, hypocrisy, and superstition, they will consider this eventas an era in their history. J. Adams.
DISACCOMMODATE
To put to inconvenience; to incommode. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
DISACCOMMODATION
A state of being unaccommodated or unsuited. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
DISACCORD
To refuse to assent. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISACCORDANT
Not accordant. Fabyan.
DISACCUSTOM
To destroy the force of habit in; to wean from a custom.Johnson.
DISACIDIFY
To free from acid.
DISACKNOWLEDGE
To refuse to acknowledge; to deny; to disown. [Obs.] South.
DISACQUAINT
To render unacquainted; to make unfamiliar. [Obs.]While my sick heart With dismal smart Is disacquainted never.Herrick.
DISACQUAINTANCE
Neglect of disuse of familiarity, or familiar acquaintance.[Obs.] South.
DISACRYL
A white amorphous substance obtained as a polymericmodification of acrolein.
DISADORN
To deprive of ornaments. Congreve.
DISADVANCE
To draw back, or cause to draw back. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISADVANTAGE
To injure the interest of; to be detrimental to.
DISADVANTAGEABLE
Injurious; disadvantageous. [Obs.] Bacon.
DISADVANTAGEOUS
Attended with disadvantage; unfavorable to success orprosperity; inconvenient; prejudicial; -- opposed to advantageous;as, the situation of an army is disadvantageous for attack ordefense.Even in the disadvantageous position in which he had been placed, hegave clear indications of future excellence. Prescott.-- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ly, adv.-- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ness, n.
DISADVENTURE
Misfortune; mishap. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
DISADVENTUROUS
Unprosperous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISADVISE
To advise against; to dissuade from. [R.] Boyle.
DISAFFECTED
Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal. J. H. Newman.-- Dis`af*fect"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis`af*fect"ed*ness, n.
DISAFFECTIONATE
Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected. [R.]Blount.
DISAFFIRM
To refuse to confirm; to annul, as a judicial decision, by acontrary judgment of a superior tribunal.
DISAFFIRMANCE
Overthrow or annulment by the decision of a superior tribunal;as, disaffirmance of judgment.
DISAFFIRMATION
The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation.
DISAFFOREST
To reduce from the privileges of a forest to the state ofcommon ground; to exempt from forest laws.By charter 9 Henry III. many forests were disafforested. Blackstone.
DISAGGREGATE
To destroy the aggregation of; to separate into componentparts, as an aggregate mass.
DISAGGREGATION
The separation of an aggregate body into its component parts.
DISAGREEABLENESS
The state or quality of being; disagreeable; unpleasantness.
DISAGREEABLY
In a disagreeable manner; unsuitably; offensively.
DISAGREEANCE
Disagreement. [Obs.]
DISAGREER
One who disagrees. Hammond.
DISALLIEGE
To alienate from allegiance. [Obs. & R.] Milton.
DISALLOW
To refuse to allow; to deny the force or validity of; to disownand reject; as, the judge disallowed the executor's charge.To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, butchosen of God. 1 Pet. ii. 4.That the edicts of Cรฆsar we may at all times disallow, but thestatutes of God for no reason we may reject. Milton.
DISALLOWABLE
Not allowable; not to be suffered. Raleigh.-- Dis`al*low"a*ble*ness, n.
DISALLOWANCE
The act of disallowing; refusal to admit or permit; rejection.
DISALLY
To part, as an alliance; to sunder. [R.] "Disallied theirnuptials." Milton.
DISANCHOR
To raise the anchor of, as a ship; to weigh anchor. [Obs.]Heywood.
DISANGELICAL
Not angelical. [R.] "Disangelical nature." Coventry.
DISANNEX
To disunite; to undo or repeal the annexation of. State Trials(1608).
DISANNUL
To annul completely; to render void or of no effect.For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul Isaiahxiv. 27.
DISANNULLER
One who disannuls.
DISANNULMENT
Complete annulment.
DISANOINT
To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.[Obs.] Milton.
DISAPPAREL
To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked.Drink disapparels the soul. Junius (1635).
DISAPPEARANCE
The act of disappearing; cessation of appearance; removal fromsight; vanishing. Addison.
DISAPPEARING
p. pr. & vb. n. of Disappear.
DISAPPENDENCY
A detachment or separation from a former connection. [R.]
DISAPPENDENT
Freed from a former connection or dependence; disconnected.[R.]
DISAPPRECIATE
To undervalue; not to esteem.-- Dis`ap*pre`ci*a"tion, n.
DISAPPROBATION
The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judgedwrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure.We have ever expressed the most unqualified disapprobation of all thesteps. Burke.
DISAPPROBATORY
Containing disapprobation; serving to disapprove.
DISAPPROPRIATE
Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritualcorporation.The appropriation may be severed, and the church becomedisappropriate, two ways. Blackstone.
DISAPPROPRIATION
The act of disappropriating.
DISAPPROVAL
Disapprobation; dislike; censure; adverse judgment.
DISAPPROVER
One who disapproves.
DISAPPROVINGLY
In a disapproving manner.
DISARD
See Dizzard. [Obs.] Burton.
DISARMAMENT
The act of disarming.
DISARMATURE
The act of divesting of armature. [R.]
DISARMED
Deprived of claws, and teeth or beaks. Cussans.
DISARMER
One who disarms.
DISARRANGE
To unsettle or disturb the order or due arrangement of; tothrow out of order.
DISARRANGEMENT
The act of disarranging, or the state of being disarranged;confusion; disorder. Cowper.
DISARRAYMENT
Disorder. [R.] Feltham.
DISARTICULATE
To sunder; to separate, as joints.-- Dis`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n.
DISARTICULATOR
One who disarticulates and prepares skeletons.
DISASSENT
To dissent. [Obs.]
DISASSENTER
One who disassents; a dissenter. [Obs.] State Trials (1634).
DISASSIDUITY
Want of as siduity or care. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.
DISASSIMILATE
To subject to disassimilation.
DISASSIMILATION
The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism,into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution ofenergy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation;downward metabolism.The breaking down of already existing chemical compounds into simplerones, sometimes called disassimilation. Martin.
DISASSIMILATIVE
Having power to disassimilate; of the nature ofdisassimilation.Disassimilative processes constitute a marked feature in the life ofanimal cells. McKendrick.
DISASSOCIATE
To disconnect from things associated; to disunite; todissociate. Florio.
DISASTERLY
Disastrously. [Obs.] Drayton.
DISATTIRE
To unrobe; to undress. Spenser.
DISAUGMENT
To diminish. [R.]
DISAUTHORIZE
To deprive of credit or authority; to discredit. [R.] W.Wotton.
DISAVAUNCE
To retard; to repel; to do damage to. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISAVENTURE
Misfortune. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISAVENTUROUS
Misadventurous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISAVOUCH
To disavow. [R.] Daniel.
DISAVOWAL
The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection anddenial.An earnest disavowal of fear often proceeds from fear. Richardson.
DISAVOWANCE
Disavowal. [Obs.] South.
DISAVOWER
One who disavows.
DISAVOWMENT
Disavowal. [R.] Wotton.
DISBAND
To become separated, broken up, dissolved, or scattered;especially, to quit military service by breaking up organization.
DISBANDMENT
The act of disbanding.
DISBAR
To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (anattorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges assuch. Abbott.
DISBARK
To disembark. Pope.
DISBARMENT
Act of disbarring.
DISBASE
To debase or degrade. [Obs.]Nor you nor your house were so much as spoken of before I disbasedmyself. B. Jonson.
DISBECOME
To misbecome. [Obs.] Massinger.
DISBELIEF
The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one isfully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true;refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief.Our belief or disbelief of a thing does not alter the nature of thething. Tillotson.No sadder proof can be given by a man of his own littleness thatdisbelief in great men. Carlyle.
DISBELIEVE
Not to believe; to refuse belief or credence to; to hold not tobe true or actual.Assertions for which there is abundant positive evidence are oftendisbelieved, on account of what is called their improbability orimpossibility. J. S. Mill.
DISBELIEVER
One who disbelieves, or refuses belief; an unbeliever.Specifically, one who does not believe the Christian religion. I.Watts.
DISBENCH
To deprive (a bencher) of his privileges. Mozley & W.
DISBEND
To unbend. [Obs.] Stirling.
DISBIND
To unbind; to loosen. [Obs.] Mede.
DISBLAME
To clear from blame. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISBODIED
Disembodied. [R.]
DISBOSCATION
Converting forest land into cleared or arable land; removal ofa forest. Sir W. Scott.
DISBOWEL
To disembowel. [R.] Spenser.
DISBRANCH
To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off. Shak.
DISBUD
To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizingthe vital strength of a tree.
DISBURDEN
To rid of a burden; to free from a load borne or from somethingoppressive; to unload; to disencumber; to relieve.He did it to disburden a conscience. Feltham.My mediations . . . will, I hope, be more calm, being thusdisburdened. Hammond.
DISBURGEON
To strip of burgeons or buds; to disbud. [R.] Holland.
DISBURSE
To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund ortreasury.The duty of collecting and disbursing his revenues. Macaulay.Disbursing officer, an officer in any department of the publicservice who is charged with the duty of paying out public money.
DISBURSER
One who disburses money.
DISBURTHEN
To disburden; to relieve of a load. [Archaic]
DISC
A flat round plate; (Biol.)
DISCAGE
To uncage. [R.] Tennyson.
DISCAL
Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells.
DISCALCEATE
To pull off shoes or sandals from. [Obs.] Cockeram.
DISCALCEATED
Deprived off shoes or sandals; unshod; discalced.
DISCALCEATION
The act of pulling off the shoes or sandals. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
DISCALCED
Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced. "Thefoundation of houses of discalced friars." Cardinal Manning's St.Teresa.
DISCAMP
To drive from a camp. [Obs.] Holland.
DISCANDY
To melt; to dissolve; to thaw. [Obs.]
DISCANT
See Descant, n.
DISCAPACITATE
To deprive of capacity; to incapacitate. [R.]
DISCARD
To throw out of one's hand, as superfluous cards; to lay aside(a card or cards).
DISCARDURE
Rejection; dismissal. [R.] Hayter.
DISCARNATE
Stripped of flesh. [Obs.] "Discarnate bones." Glanvill.
DISCASE
To strip; to undress. Shak.
DISCEDE
To yield or give up; to depart. [Obs.]I dare not discede from my copy a tittle. Fuller.
DISCEPT
To debate; to discuss. [R.]One dissertates, he is candid; Two must discept, -- hasdistinguished. R. Browning.
DISCEPTATION
Controversy; disputation; discussion. [Archaic]Verbose janglings and endless disceptations. Strype.
DISCEPTATOR
One who arbitrates or decides. [R.] Cowley.
DISCERNANCE
Discernment. [Obs.]
DISCERNER
One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, orjudges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong.A great observer and discerner of men's natures. Clarendon.
DISCERNIBLE
Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding; as,a star is discernible by the eye; the identity of difference of ideasis discernible by the understanding.The effect of the privations and sufferings . . . was discernible tothe last in his temper and deportment. Macaulay.
DISCERNIBLENESS
The quality of being discernible.
DISCERNIBLY
In a manner to be discerned; perceptibly; visibly. Hammond.
DISCERNING
Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted. Macaulay.
DISCERNINGLY
In a discerning manner; with judgment; judiciously; acutely.Garth.
DISCERP
Capability or liableness to be discerped. [R.] Wollaston.
DISCERPTION
The act of pulling to pieces, or of separating the parts. Bp.Hall.
DISCERPTIVE
Tending to separate or disunite parts. Encys. Dict.
DISCESSION
Departure. [Obs.]
DISCHARGE
To throw off or deliver a load, charge, or burden; to unload;to emit or give vent to fluid or other contents; as, the water pipedischarges freely.The cloud, if it were oily or fatty, would not discharge. Bacon.
DISCHARGER
One who, or that which, discharges. Specifically, inelectricity, an instrument for discharging a Leyden jar, orelectrical battery, by making a connection between the two surfaces;a discharging rod.
DISCHEVELE
Disheveled. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISCHURCH
To deprive of status as a church, or of membership in a church.Bp. Hall.
DISCIDE
To divide; to cleave in two. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISCIFEROUS
Bearing disks.
DISCIFORM
Discoid.
DISCINA
A genus of Branchiopoda, having a disklike shell, attached byone valve, which is perforated by the peduncle.
DISCINCT
Ungirded; loosely dressed. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
DISCIND
To part; to divide. [Obs.] Boyle.
DISCIPLE
One who receives instruction from another; a scholar; alearner; especially, a follower who has learned to believe in thetruth of the doctrine of his teacher; an adherent in doctrine; as,the disciples of Plato; the disciples of our Savior. The disciples,or The twelve disciples, the twelve selected companions of Jesus; --also called the apostles.-- Disciples of Christ. See Christian, n., 3, and Campbellite.
DISCIPLESHIP
The state of being a disciple or follower in doctrines andprecepts. Jer. Taylor.
DISCIPLESS
A female disciple. [Obs.]
DISCIPLINABLENESS
The quality of being improvable by discipline. Sir M. Hale.
DISCIPLINAL
Relating to discipline. Latham.
DISCIPLINANT
A flagellant. See Flagellant.
DISCIPLINARIAN
Pertaining to discipline. "Displinarian system." Milman.
DISCIPLINARY
Pertaining to discipline; intended for discipline; corrective;belonging to a course of training.Those canons . . . were only disciplinary. Bp. Ferne.The evils of the . . . are disciplinary and remedial. Buckminster.
DISCIPLINE
The enforcement of methods of correction against one guilty ofecclesiastical offenses; reformatory or penal action toward a churchmember.
DISCIPLINER
One who disciplines.
DISCLAIM
To relinquish or deny having a claim; to disavow another'sclaim; to decline accepting, as an estate, interest, or office.Burrill.
DISCLAIMER
A denial, disavowal, or renunciation, as of a title, claim,interest, estate, or trust; relinquishment or waiver of an interestor estate. Burrill.
DISCLAMATION
A disavowing or disowning. Bp. Hall.
DISCLAME
To disclaim; to expel. [Obs.] "Money did love disclame."Spenser.
DISCLAUNDER
To injure one's good name; to slander. [Obs.]
DISCLOAK
To take off a cloak from; to uncloak. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
DISCLOSE
Disclosure. [Obs.] Shak. Young.
DISCLOSED
Represented with wings expanded; -- applied to doves and otherbirds not of prey. Cussans.
DISCLOSER
One who discloses.
DISCLOUD
To clear from clouds. [Archaic] Fuller.
DISCLOUT
To divest of a clout. [R.]
DISCLUSION
A shutting off; exclusion. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DISCOAST
To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) ofanything; to be separated. [Obs.]As far as heaven and earth discoasted lie. G. Fletcher.To discoast from the plain and simple way of speech. Barrow.
DISCOBLASTIC
Applied to a form of egg cleavage seen in osseous fishes, whichoccurs only in a small disk that separates from the rest of the egg.
DISCODACTYL
One of the tree frogs.
DISCODACTYLIA
A division of amphibians having suctorial disks on the toes, asthe tree frogs.
DISCODACTYLOUS
Having sucking disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.
DISCOHERENT
Incoherent. [R.]
DISCOID
Having the form of a disk, as those univalve shells which havethe whorls in one plane, so as to form a disk, as the pearlynautilus. Discoid flower (Bot.), a compound flower, consisting oftubular florets only, as a tansy, lacking the rays which are seen inthe daisy and sunflower.
DISCOIDAL
Disk-shaped; discoid.
DISCOLITH
One of a species of coccoliths, having an oval discoidal body,with a thick strongly refracting rim, and a thinner central portion.One of them measures about
DISCOLORATE
To discolor. [R.] Fuller.
DISCOMFIT
Discomfited; overthrown. [Obs.]
DISCOMFITURE
The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited;rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection.Every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very greatdiscomfiture. 1 Sam. xiv. 20.A hope destined to end . . . in discomfiture and disgrace. Macaulay.
DISCOMMENDABLE
Deserving, disapprobation or blame.-- Dis`com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.
DISCOMMENDATION
Blame; censure; reproach. [R.] Ayliffe.
DISCOMMENDER
One who discommends; a dispraiser. Johnson.
DISCOMMISSION
To deprive of a commission or trust. [R.] Laud.
DISCOMMODATE
To discommode. [Obs.] Howell.
DISCOMMODE
To put inconvenience; to incommode; to trouble. [R.]
DISCOMMODIOUS
Inconvenient; troublesome; incommodious. [R.] Spenser.-- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.-- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ness, n.
DISCOMMODITY
Disadvantage; inconvenience. Bacon.
DISCOMMON
To deprive of commonable quality, as lands, by inclosing orappropriating. Burrill.
DISCOMMUNITY
A lack of common possessions, properties, or relationship.Community of embryonic structure reveals community of descent; butdissimilarity of embryonic development does not prove discommunity ofdescent. Darwin.
DISCOMPANY
To free from company; to dissociate. [R.]It she be alone now, and discompanied. B. Jonson.
DISCOMPLEXION
To change the complexion or hue of. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
DISCOMPLIANCE
Failure or refusal to comply; noncompliance.A compliance will discommend me to Mr. Coventry, and a discomplianceto my lord chancellor. Pepys.
DISCOMPOSED
Disordered; disturbed; disquieted.-- Dis`com*pos"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis`com*pos"ed*ness, n.
DISCOMPOSITION
Inconsistency; discordance. [Obs.] Donne.
DISCOMPT
To discount. See Discount. Hudibras.
DISCONCERT
Want of concert; disagreement. Sir W. Temple.
DISCONCERTION
The act of disconcerting, or state of being disconcerted;discomposure; perturbation. [R.] State Trials (1794).
DISCONDUCIVE
Not conductive; impeding; disadvantageous. [R.]
DISCONFORMABLE
Not conformable.Disconformable in religion from us. Stow (1603).
DISCONFORMITY
Want of conformity or correspondence; inconsistency;disagreement.Those . . . in some disconformity to ourselves. Milton.Disagreement and disconformity betwixt the speech and the conceptionof the mind. Hakewill.
DISCONGRUITY
Incongruity; disagreement; unsuitableness. Sir M. Hale.
DISCONNECT
To dissolve the union or connection of; to disunite; to sever;to separate; to disperse.The commonwealth itself would . . . be disconnected into the dust andpowder of individuality. Burke.This restriction disconnects bank paper and the precious metals.Walsh.
DISCONNECTION
The act of disconnecting, or state of being disconnected;separation; want of union.Nothing was therefore to be left in all the subordinate members butweakness, disconnection, and confusion. Burke.
DISCONSECRATE
To deprive of consecration or sacredness. [R.]
DISCONSENT
To differ; to disagree; to dissent. [Obs.] Milton.
DISCONSOLACY
The state of being disconsolate. [Obs.] Barrow.
DISCONSOLATE
Disconsolateness. [Obs.] Barrow.
DISCONSOLATED
Disconsolate. [Obs.]A poor, disconsolated, drooping creature. Sterne.
DISCONSOLATION
Dejection; grief. [R.] Bp. Hall.
DISCONTENT
Not content; discontented; dissatisfied. Jer. Taylor.Passion seemed to be much discontent, but Patience was very quiet.Bunyan.
DISCONTENTATION
Discontent. [Obs.] Ascham.
DISCONTENTED
Dissatisfied; uneasy in mind; malcontent.And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt,and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him. 1Sam. xxii. 2.-- Dis`con*tent"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis`con*tent"ed*ness, n.
DISCONTENTFUL
Full of discontent. [R.]
DISCONTENTIVE
Relating or tending to discontent. [R.] "Pride is everdiscontentive." Feltham.
DISCONTENTMENT
The state of being discontented; uneasiness; inquietude. Bacon.
DISCONTINUABLE
Admitting of being discontinued. [R.]
DISCONTINUATION
Breach or interruption of continuity; separation of parts in aconnected series; discontinuance.Upon any discontinuation of parts, made either by bubbles or byshaking the glass, the whole mercury falls. Sir I. Newton.
DISCONTINUE
To interrupt the continuance of; to intermit, as a practice orhabit; to put an end to; to cause to cease; to cease using, to stop;to leave off.Set up their conventicles again, which had been discontinued. Bp.Burnet.I have discontinued school Above a twelvemonth. Shak.Taught the Greek tongue, discontinued before in these parts the spaceof seven hundred years. Daniel.They modify and discriminate the voice, without appearing todiscontinue it. Holder.
DISCONTINUEE
One whose possession of an estate is broken off, ordiscontinued; one whose estate is subject to discontinuance.
DISCONTINUER
One who discontinues, or breaks off or away from; an absentee.He was no gadder abroad, not discontinuer from his convent for a longtime. Fuller.
DISCONTINUITY
Want of continuity or cohesion; disunion of parts."Discontinuity of surface." Boyle.
DISCONTINUOR
One who deprives another of the possession of an estate bydiscontinuance. See Discontinuance, 2.
DISCONVENIENCE
Unsuitableness; incongruity. [Obs.] Bacon.
DISCONVENIENT
Not convenient or congruous; unsuitable; ill-adapted. [Obs.]Bp. Reynolds.
DISCOPHORA
A division of acalephs or jellyfishes, including most of thelarge disklike species.-- Dis*coph"o*rous, a.
DISCORD
Union of musical sounds which strikes the ear harshly ordisagreeably, owing to the incommensurability of the vibrations whichthey produce; want of musical concord or harmony; a chord demandingresolution into a concord.For a discord itself is but a harshness of divers sounds mBacon.Apple of discord. See under Apple.
DISCORDABLE
That may produce discord; disagreeing; discordant. [R.]Halliwell.
DISCORDANT
Dissonant; not in harmony or musical concord; harsh; jarring;as, discordant notes or sounds.For still their music seemed to start Discordant echoes in eachheart. Longfellow.
DISCORDFUL
Full of discord; contentious. [Obs.] "His discordful dame."Spenser.
DISCORDOUS
Full of discord. [Obs.]
DISCORPORATE
Deprived of the privileges or form of a body corporate. [Obs.]Jas. II.
DISCORRESPONDENT
Incongruous. W. Montagu.
DISCOST
Same as Discoast. [Obs.]
DISCOUNSEL
To dissuade. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISCOUNT
To lend, or make a practice of lending, money, abating thediscount; as, the discount for sixty or ninety days.
DISCOUNTABLE
Capable of being, or suitable to be, discounted; as, certainforms are necessary to render notes discountable at a bank.
DISCOUNTENANCE
Unfavorable aspect; unfriendly regard; cold treatment;disapprobation; whatever tends to check or discourage.He thought a little discountenance on those persons would suppressthat spirit. Clarendon.
DISCOUNTENANCER
One who discountenances; one who disfavors. Bacon.
DISCOUNTER
One who discounts; a discount broker. Burke.
DISCOURAGE
Lack of courage; cowardliness.
DISCOURAGEABLE
Capable of being discouraged; easily disheartened. Bp. Hall.
DISCOURAGER
One who discourages.The promoter of truth and the discourager of error. Sir G. C. Lewis.
DISCOURAGING
Causing or indicating discouragement.-- Dis*cour"a*ging*ly, adv.
DISCOURE
To discover. [Obs.]That none might her discoure. Spenser.
DISCOURSIVE
The state or quality of being discoursive or able to reason.[R.] Feltham.
DISCOURTEOUS
Uncivil; rude; wanting in courtesy or good manners;uncourteous.-- Dis*cour"te*ous*ly, adv.-- Dis*cour"te*ous*ness, n.
DISCOURTESY
Rudeness of behavior or language; ill manners; manifestation ofdisrespect; incivility.Be calm in arguing; for fierceness makes Error a fault, and truthdiscourtesy. Herbert.
DISCOURTSHIP
Want of courtesy. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
DISCOUS
Disklike; discoid.
DISCOVENANT
To dissolve covenant with.
DISCOVER
To discover or show one's self. [Obs.]This done, they discover. DeckeNor was this the first time that they discovered to be followers ofthis world. Milton.
DISCOVERABILITY
The quality of being discoverable. [R.] Carlyle.
DISCOVERABLE
Capable of being discovered, found out, or perceived; as, manyminute animals are discoverable only by the help of the microscope;truths discoverable by human industry.
DISCOVERMENT
Discovery. [Obs.]
DISCOVERT
Not covert; not within the bonds of matrimony; unmarried; --applied either to a woman who has never married or to a widow.
DISCOVERTURE
A state of being released from coverture; freedom of a womanfrom the coverture of a husband.
DISCOVERY DAY
= Columbus Day, above.
DISCRADLE
To take from a cradle. [R.]This airy apparition first discradled From Tournay into Portugal.Ford.
DISCREDITABLE
Not creditable; injurious to reputation; disgraceful;disreputable.-- Dis*cred"it*a*bly, adv.
DISCREDITOR
One who discredits.
DISCREET
The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement;variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety.There hath been ever a discrepance of vesture of youth and age, menand women. Sir T. Elyot.There is no real discrepancy between these two genealogies. G. S.Faber.
DISCREPANT
Discordant; at variance; disagreeing; contrary; different.The Egyptians were . . . the most oddly discrepant from the rest intheir manner of worship. Cudworth.
DISCRETE
Separate; not coalescent; -- said of things usually coalescent.Discrete movement. See Concrete movement of the voice, underConcrete, a.-- Discrete proportion, proportion where the ratio of the means isdifferent from that of either couplet; as, 3:6::8:16, 3 bearing thesame proportion to 6 as 8 does to 16. But 3 is not to 6 as 6 to 8. Itis thus opposed to continued or continual proportion; as, 3:6::12:24.-- Discrete quantity, that which must be divided into units, asnumber, and is opposed to continued quantity, as duration, orextension.
DISCRETELY
Separately; disjunctively.
DISCRETION
Left to discretion; unrestrained except by discretion orjudgment; as, an ambassador with discretionary powers.
DISCRETIVE
Marking distinction or separation; disjunctive. Discretiveproposition (Logic & Gram.), one that expresses distinction,opposition, or variety, by means of discretive particles, as but,though, yet, etc.; as, travelers change their climate, but not theirtemper.
DISCRETIVELY
In a discretive manner.
DISCRIMINABLE
Capable of being discriminated. [Obs.] Bailey.
DISCRIMINAL
In palmistry, applied to the line which marks the separationbetween the hand and the arm.
DISCRIMINANT
The eliminant of the n partial differentials of any homogenousfunction of n variables. See Eliminant.
DISCRIMINATE
Having the difference marked; distinguished by certain tokens.Bacon.
DISCRIMINATELY
In a discriminating manner; distinctly.
DISCRIMINATENESS
The state of being discriminated; distinctness.
DISCRIMINATING
Marking a difference; distinguishing.-- Dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv.And finds with keen discriminating sight, Black's not so black; --nor white so very white. Canning.
DISCRIMINATION
The arbitrary imposition of unequal tariffs for substantiallythe same service.A difference in rates, not based upon any corresponding difference incost, constitutes a case of discrimination. A. T. Hadley.
DISCRIMINATIVELY
With discrimination or distinction. J. Foster.
DISCRIMINATOR
One who discriminates.
DISCRIMINATORY
Discriminative.
DISCRIMINOUS
Hazardous; dangerous. [Obs.] Harvey.
DISCRIVE
To describe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISCROWN
To deprive of a crown.The end had crowned the work; it not unreasonably discrowned theworkman. Motley.
DISCRUCIATE
To torture; to excruciate. [Obs.]Discruciate a man in deep distress. Herrick.
DISCUBITORY
Leaning; fitted for a reclining posture. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DISCULPATE
To free from blame or the imputation of a fault; to exculpate.I almost fear you think I begged it, but I can disculpate myself.Walpole.
DISCULPATION
Exculpation. Burke.
DISCULPATORY
Tending to exculpate; exculpatory.
DISCUMBENCY
The act of reclining at table according to the manner of theancients at their meals. Sir T. Browne.
DISCUMBER
To free from that which cumbers or impedes; to disencumber.[Archaic] Pope.
DISCURE
To discover; to reveal; to discoure. [Obs.]I will, if please you it discure, assay To ease you of that ill, sowisely as I may. Spenser.
DISCURRENT
Not current or free to circulate; not in use. [Obs.] Sir E.Sandys.
DISCURSION
The act of discoursing or reasoning; range, as from thought tothought. Coleridge.
DISCURSIST
A discourser. [Obs.] L. Addison.
DISCURSORY
Argumentative; discursive; reasoning. [R.] Bp. Hall.
DISCURSUS
Argumentation; ratiocination; discursive reasoning.
DISCUSS
To examine or search thoroughly; to exhaust a remedy against,as against a principal debtor before proceeding against the surety.Burrill.
DISCUSSER
One who discusses; one who sifts or examines. Wood.
DISCUSSIONAL
Pertaining to discussion.
DISCUSSIVE
Able or tending to discuss or disperse tumors or coagulatedmatter.
DISCUTIENT
Serving to disperse morbid matter; discussive; as, a discutientapplication.-- n.
DISDAIN
To be filled with scorn; to feel contemptuous anger; to behaughty.And when the chief priests and scribes saw the marvels that he did .. . they disdained. Genevan Testament (Matt. xxi. 15).
DISDAINED
Disdainful. [Obs.]Revenge the jeering and disdained contempt Of this proud king. Shak.
DISDAINFUL
Full of disdain; expressing disdain; scornful; contemptuous;haughty.From these Turning disdainful to an equal good. Akenside.-- Dis*dain"ful*ly, adv.-- Dis*dain"ful*ness, n.
DISDAINISHLY
Disdainfully. [Obs.] Vives.
DISDAINOUS
Disdainful. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
DISDAINOUSLY
Disdainfully. [Obs.] Bale.
DISDEIFY
To divest or deprive of deity or of a deific rank or condition.Feltham.
DISDEIGN
To disdain. [Obs.]Guyon much disdeigned so loathly sight. Spenser.
DISDIACLAST
One of the dark particles forming the doubly refracting disksof muscle fibers.
DISDIAPASON
An interval of two octaves, or a fifteenth; -- called alsobisdiapason.
DISEASED
Afflicted with disease.It is my own diseased imagination that torments me. W. Irving.
DISEASEDNESS
The state of being diseased; a morbid state; sickness. [R.] T.Burnet.
DISEASEFULNESS
The quality of being diseaseful; trouble; trial. [R.] Sir P.Sidney.
DISEASEMENT
Uneasiness; inconvenience. [Obs.] Bacon.
DISEDGE
To deprive of an edge; to blunt; to dull.Served a little to disedge The sharpness of that pain about herheart. Tennyson.
DISEDIFY
To fail of edifying; to injure. [R.]
DISELDER
To deprive of an elder or elders, or of the office of an elder.[Obs.] Fuller.
DISELENIDE
A selenide containing two atoms of selenium in each molecule.
DISEMBARK
To remove from on board a vessel; to put on shore; to land; todebark; as, the general disembarked the troops.
DISEMBARKATION
The act of disembarking.
DISEMBARKMENT
Disembarkation. [R.]
DISEMBARRASS
To free from embarrassment, or perplexity; to clear; toextricate.To disembarrass himself of his companion. Sir W. Scott.
DISEMBARRASSMENT
Freedom or relief from impediment or perplexity.
DISEMBAY
To clear from a bay. Sherburne.
DISEMBELLISH
To deprive of embellishment; to disadorn. Carlyle.
DISEMBITTER
To free from
DISEMBODIED
Divested of a body; ceased to be corporal; incorporeal.The disembodied spirits of the dead. Bryant.
DISEMBODIMENT
The act of disembodying, or the state of being disembodied.
DISEMBODY
To disarm and disband, as a body of soldiers,-Wilhelm.
DISEMBOGUE
To become discharged; to flow put; to find vent; to pour outcontents.Volcanos bellow ere they disembogue. Young.
DISEMBOGUEMENT
The act of disemboguing; discharge. Mease.
DISEMBOSSOM
To separate from the bosom. [R.] Young.
DISEMBOWELMENT
The act of disemboweling, or state of being disemboweled;evisceration.
DISEMBOWERED
Deprived of, or removed from, a bower. [Poetic] Bryant.
DISEMBRANGLE
To free from wrangling or litigation. [Obs.] Berkeley.
DISEMBROIL
To disentangle; to free from perplexity; to extricate fromconfusion.Vaillant has disembroiled a history that was lost to the world beforehis time. Addison.
DISEMPLOY
To throw out of employment. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
DISEMPLOYMENT
The state of being disemployed, or deprived of employment.This glut of leisure and disemployment. Jer. Taylor.
DISEMPOWER
To deprive of power; to divest of strength. H. Bushnell.
DISENABLE
To disable; to disqualify.The sight of it might damp me and disenable me to speak. State Trials(1640).
DISENAMOR
To free from the captivity of love. Shelton.
DISENCHAINED
Freed from restraint; unrestrained. [Archaic] E. A. Poe.
DISENCHANT
To free from enchantment; to deliver from the power of charmsor spells; to free from fascination or delusion.Haste to thy work; a noble stroke or two Ends all the charms, anddisenchants the grove. Dryden.
DISENCHANTER
One who, or that which, disenchants.
DISENCHANTMENT
The act of disenchanting, or state of being disenchanted.Shelton.
DISENCHARM
To free from the influence of a charm or spell; to disenchant.[R.] Jer. Taylor.
DISENCLOSE
See Disinclose.
DISENCOURAGEMENT
Discouragement. [Obs.] Spectator.
DISENCRESE
To decrease. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISENCUMBER
To free from encumbrance, or from anything which clogs,impedes, or obstructs; to disburden. Owen.I have disencumbered myself from rhyme. Dryden.
DISENCUMBRANCE
Freedom or deliverance from encumbrance, or anything burdensomeor troublesome. Spectator.
DISENDOW
To deprive of an endowment, as a church. Gladstone.
DISENDOWMENT
The act of depriving of an endowment or endowments.[The] disendowment of the Irish Church. G. B. Smith.
DISENFRANCHISE
To disfranchise; to deprive of the rights of a citizen.-- Dis`en*fran"chise*ment, n.
DISENGAGE
To release from that with which anything is engaged, engrossed,involved, or entangled; to extricate; to detach; to set free; toliberate; to clear; as, to disengage one from a party, from broilsand controversies, from an oath, promise, or occupation; to disengagethe affections a favorite pursuit, the mind from study.To disengage him and the kingdom, great sums were to be borrowed.Milton.Caloric and light must be disengaged during the process. Transl. ofLavoisier.
DISENGAGED
Not engaged; free from engagement; at leisure; free fromoccupation or care; vacant.-- Dis`en*ga"ged*ness, n.
DISENGAGING
Loosing; setting free; detaching. Disengaging machinery. Seeunder Engaging.
DISENNOBLE
To deprive of that which ennobles; to degrade.An unworthy behavior degrades and disennobles a man. Guardian.
DISENROLL
To erase from a roll or list. [Written also disenrol.] Donne.
DISENSANITY
Insanity; folly. [Obs.]What tediosity and disensanity Is here among! Beau. & Fl.
DISENSHROUDED
Freed from a shroudlike covering; unveiled.The disenshrouded statue. R. Browning.
DISENSLAVE
To free from bondage or slavery; to disenthrall.He shall disenslave and redeem his soul. South.
DISENTAIL
To free from entailment.
DISENTANGLEMENT
The act of disentangling or clearing from difficulties. Warton.
DISENTER
See Disinter.
DISENTHRALL
To release from thralldom or slavery; to give freedom to; todisinthrall. [Written also disenthral.] Milton.
DISENTHRALLMENT
Liberation from bondage; emancipation; disinthrallment.[Written also disenthralment.]
DISENTHRONE
To dethrone; to depose from sovereign authority. Milton.
DISENTITLE
To deprive of title or claim.Every ordinary offense does not disentitle a son to the love of hisfather. South.
DISENTOMB
To take out from a tomb; a disinter.
DISENTRAIL
To disembowel; to let out or draw forth, as the entrails.[Obs.]As if he thought her soul to disentrail. Spenser.
DISENTRANCE
To awaken from a trance or an enchantment. Hudibras.
DISENTWINE
To free from being entwined or twisted. Shelley.
DISEPALOUS
Having two sepals; two-sepaled.
DISERT
Eloquent. [Obs.]
DISERTITUDE
Eloquence. [Obs.]
DISERTY
Expressly; clearly; eloquently. [Obs.] Holland.
DISESPOUSE
To release from espousal or plighted faith. [Poetic] Milton.
DISESTABLISH
To unsettle; to break up (anything established); to deprive, asa church, of its connection with the state. M. Arnold.
DISESTEEM
Want of esteem; low estimation, inclining to dislike; disfavor;disrepute.Disesteem and contempt of the public affairs. Milton.
DISESTEEMER
One who disesteems. Boyle.
DISESTIMATION
Disesteem.
DISEXERCISE
To deprive of exercise; to leave untrained. [Obs.]By disexercising and blunting our abilities. Milton.
DISFAME
Disrepute. [R.] Tennyson.
DISFANCY
To dislike. [Obs.]
DISFASHION
To disfigure. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
DISFAVORABLE
Unfavorable. [Obs.] Stow.
DISFAVORABLY
Unpropitiously. [Obs.]
DISFAVORER
One who disfavors. Bacon.
DISFEATURE
To deprive of features; to mar the features of. [R.]
DISFELLOWSHIP
To exclude from fellowship; to refuse intercourse with, as anassociate.An attempt to disfellowship an evil, but to fellowship the evildoer.Freewill Bapt. Quart.
DISFIGURATION
The act of disfiguring, or the state of being disfigured;defacement; deformity; disfigurement. Gauden.
DISFIGURE
To mar the figure of; to render less complete, perfect, orbeautiful in appearance; to deface; to deform.Disfiguring not God's likeness, but their own. Milton.
DISFIGURER
One who disfigures.
DISFLESH
To reduce the flesh or obesity of. [Obs.] Shelton.
DISFORESTATION
The act of clearing land of forests. Daniel.
DISFORMITY
Discordance or diversity of form; unlikeness in form.Uniformity or disformity in comparing together the respective figuresof bodies. S. Clarke.
DISFRANCHISE
To deprive of a franchise or chartered right; to dispossess ofthe rights of a citizen, or of a particular privilege, as of voting,holding office, etc.Sir William Fitzwilliam was disfranchised. Fabyan (1509).He was partially disfranchised so as to be made incapable of takingpart in public affairs. Thirlwall.
DISFRANCHISEMENT
The act of disfranchising, or the state disfranchised;deprivation of privileges of citizenship or of chartered immunities.Sentenced first to dismission from the court, and then todisfranchisement and expulsion from the colony. Palfrey.
DISFRIAR
To depose or withdraw from the condition of a friar. [Obs.]Many did quickly unnun and disfriar themselves. Fuller.
DISFROCK
To unfrock.
DISFURNISH
To deprive of that with which anything is furnished (furniture,equipments, etc.); to strip; to render destitute; to divest.I am a thing obscure, disfurnished of All merit, that can raise mehigher. Massinger.
DISFURNISHMENT
The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.Daniel.
DISFURNITURE
The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.[Obs.]
DISGAGE
To free from a gage or pledge; to disengage. [Obs.] Holland.
DISGALLANT
To deprive of gallantry. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
DISGARLAND
To strip of a garland. [Poetic] "Thy locks disgarland."Drummond.
DISGARNISH
To divest of garniture; to disfurnish; to dismantle. Bp. Hall.
DISGARRISON
To deprive of a garrison. Hewyt.
DISGAVEL
To deprive of that principal quality of gavelkind tenure bywhich lands descend equally among all the sons of the tenant; -- saidof lands. Burrill.
DISGEST
To digest. [Obs.] Bacon.
DISGESTION
Digestion. [Obs.]
DISGLORIFY
To deprive of glory; to treat with indignity. [R.]Disglorified, blasphemed, and had in scorn. Milton.
DISGLORY
Dishonor. [Obs.]To the disglory of God's name. Northbrooke.
DISGORGE
To vomit forth what anything contains; to discharge; to makerestitution.See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths Into the sea. Milton.
DISGORGEMENT
The act of disgorging; a vomiting; that which is disgorged. Bp.Hall.
DISGOSPEL
To be inconsistent with, or act contrary to, the precepts ofthe gospel; to pervert the gospel. [Obs.] Milton.
DISGRACEFUL
Bringing disgrace; causing shame; shameful; dishonorable;unbecoming; as, profaneness is disgraceful to a man.-- Dis*grace"ful*fy, adv.-- Dis*grace"ful*ness, n.The Senate have cast you forth disgracefully. B. Jonson.
DISGRACER
One who disgraces.
DISGRACIOUS
Wanting grace; unpleasing; disagreeable. Shak.
DISGRACIVE
Disgracing. [Obs.] Feltham.
DISGRADATION
Degradation; a stripping of titles and honors.
DISGRADE
To degrade. [Obs.] Foxe.
DISGRADUATE
To degrade; to reduce in rank. [Obs.] Tyndale.
DISGREGATE
To disperse; to scatter; -- opposite of congregate. [Obs.]
DISGREGATION
The process of separation, or the condition of being separate,as of the molecules of a body.
DISGRUNTLE
To dissatisfy; to disaffect; to anger. [Colloq.]
DISGUISEDLY
In disguise.
DISGUISEDNESS
The state of being disguised.
DISGUISEMENT
Disguise. [R.] Spenser.
DISGUISING
A masque or masquerade. [Obs.]
DISGUST
To provoke disgust or strong distaste in; to cause (any one)loathing, as of the stomach; to excite aversion in; to offend themoral taste of; -- often with at, with, or by.To disgust him with the world and its vanities. Prescott.รrius is expressly declared . . . to have been disgusted at failing.J. H. Newman.Alarmed and disgusted by the proceedings of the convention. Macaulay.
DISGUSTFUL
Provoking disgust; offensive to the taste; exciting aversion;disgusting.That horrible and disgustful situation. Burke.
DISGUSTFULNESS
The state of being disgustful.
DISGUSTING
That causes disgust; sickening; offensive; revolting.-- Dis*gust"ing*ly, adv.
DISHABILITATE
To disqualify. [R.]
DISHABILLE
An undress; a loose, negligent dress; deshabille.They breakfast in dishabille. Smollett.
DISHABIT
To dislodge. [Obs.]Those sleeping stones . . . from their fixed beds of lime Had beendishabited. Shak.
DISHABITED
Rendered uninhabited. "Dishabited towns." R. Carew.
DISHABITUATE
To render unaccustomed.
DISHALLOW
To make unholy; to profane. Tennyson.Nor can the unholiness of the priest dishallow the altar. T. Adams.
DISHARMONIOUS
Unharmonious; discordant. [Obs.] Hallywell.
DISHARMONY
Want of harmony; discord; incongruity. [R.]A disharmony in the different impulses that constitute it [ournature]. Coleridge.
DISHAUNT
To leave; to quit; to cease to haunt. Halliwell.
DISHCLOTH
A cloth used for washing dishes.
DISHCLOUT
A dishcloth. [Obsolescent]
DISHEART
To dishearten. [Obs.]
DISHEARTEN
To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress thespirits of; to deject.Regiments . . . utterly disorganized and disheartened. Macaulay.
DISHEARTENMENT
Discouragement; dejection; depression of spirits.
DISHEIR
To disinherit. [Obs.] Dryden.
DISHELM
To deprive of the helmet. [Poetic]Lying stark, Dishelmed and mute, and motionlessly pale. Tennyson.
DISHERISON
The act of disheriting, or debarring from inheritance;disinhersion. Bp. Hall.
DISHERIT
To disinherit; to cut off, or detain, from the possession orenjoyment of an inheritance. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISHERITANCE
The act of disinheriting or state of being disinherited;disinheritance. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
DISHERITOR
One who puts another out of his inheritance.
DISHEVEL
To be spread in disorder or hang negligently, as the hair. [R.]Sir T. Herbert.
DISHEVELE
Disheveled. [Obs.]Dishevele, save his cap, he rode all bare. Chaucer.
DISHFUL
As much as a dish holds when full.
DISHING
Dish-shaped; concave.
DISHONEST
To disgrace; to dishonor; as, to dishonest a maid. [Obs.]I will no longer dishonest my house. Chapman.
DISHONESTLY
In a dishonest manner.
DISHONOR
The nonpayment or nonacceptance of commercial paper by theparty on whom it is drawn.
DISHONORARY
Bringing dishonor on; tending to disgrace; lesseningreputation. Holmes.
DISHONORER
One who dishonors or disgraces; one who treats anotherindignity. Milton.
DISHORN
To deprive of horns; as, to dishorn cattle. "Dishorn thespirit." Shak.
DISHORSE
To dismount. Tennyson.
DISHOUSE
To deprive of house or home. "Dishoused villagers." JamesWhite.
DISHUMOR
Ill humor. [Obs.]
DISHWASHER
A European bird; the wagtail.
DISHWATER
Water in which dishes have been washed. "Suds and dishwater."Beau. & Fl.
DISILLUSION
The act or process of freeing from an illusion, or the state ofbeing freed therefrom. Lowell.
DISILLUSIONIZE
To disenchant; to free from illusion. "The bitterdisillusionizing experience of postnuptial life." W. Black.
DISILLUSIONMENT
The act of freeing from an illusion, or the state of beingfreed therefrom.
DISIMBITTER
To free from bitterness.
DISIMPARK
To free from the barriers or restrictions of a park. [R.]Spectator.
DISIMPASSIONED
Free from warmth of passion or feeling.
DISIMPROVE
To make worse; -- the opposite of improve. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
DISIMPROVEMENT
Reduction from a better to a worse state; as, disimprovement ofthe earth.
DISINCARCERATE
To liberate from prison. [R.] Harvey.
DISINCLINATION
The state of being disinclined; want of propensity, desire, oraffection; slight aversion or dislike; indisposition.Disappointment gave him a disinclination to the fair sex. Arbuthnot.Having a disinclination to books or business. Guardian.
DISINCLINE
To incline away the affections of; to excite a slight aversionin; to indispose; to make unwilling; to alienate.Careful . . . to disincline them from any reverence or affection tothe Queen. Clarendon.To social scenes by nature disinclined. Cowper.
DISINCLOSE
To free from being inclosed.
DISINCORPORATE
Separated from, or not included in, a corporation;disincorporated. Bacon.
DISINCORPORATION
Deprivation of the rights and privileges of a corporation. T.Warton.
DISINFECT
To free from infectious or contagious matter; to destroyputrefaction; to purify; to make innocuous.When the infectious matter and the infectious matter and theodoriferous matter are one . . . then to deodorize is to disinfect.Ure.
DISINFECTANT
That which disinfects; an agent for removing the causes ofinfection, as chlorine.
DISINFECTION
The act of disinfecting; purification from infecting matter.
DISINFECTOR
One who, or that which, disinfects; an apparatus for applyingdisinfectants.
DISINFLAME
To divest of flame or ardor. Chapman.
DISINGENUITY
Disingenuousness. [Obs.] Clarendon.
DISINHABITED
Uninhabited. [Obs.]
DISINHERISON
Same as Disherison. Bacon.
DISINHERITANCE
The act of disinheriting, or the condition of being;disinherited; disherison.
DISINHUME
To disinter. [R.]
DISINSURE
To render insecure; to put in danger. [Obs.] Fanshawe.
DISINTEGRABLE
Capable of being disintegrated, or reduced to fragments orpowder.Argillo-calcite is readily disintegrable by exposure. Kirwan.
DISINTEGRATE
To separate into integrant parts; to reduce to fragments or topowder; to break up, or cause to fall to pieces, as a rock, by blowsof a hammer, frost, rain, and other mechanical or atmosphericinfluences.Marlites are not disintegrated by exposure to the atmosphere, atleast in six years. Kirwan.
DISINTEGRATOR
A machine for grinding or pulverizing by percussion.
DISINTERESS
To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage.[Obs.]
DISINTERESSMENT
Disinterestedness; impartiality; fairness. [Obs.] Prior.
DISINTEREST
Disinterested. [Obs.]The measures they shall walk by shall be disinterest and even. Jer.Taylor.
DISINTERESTED
Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage;free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling;not biased or prejudiced; as, a disinterested decision or judge.The happiness of disinterested sacrifices. Channing.
DISINTERESTEDLY
In a disinterested manner; without bias or prejudice.
DISINTERESTEDNESS
The state or quality of being disinterested; impartiality.That perfect disinterestedness and self-devotion of which man seemsto be incapable, but which is sometimes found in woman. Macaulay.
DISINTERESTING
Uninteresting. [Obs.] "Disinteresting passages." Bp. Warburton.
DISINTERMENT
The act of disinterring, or taking out of the earth;exhumation.
DISINTHRALL
To free from thralldom; to disenthrall. [Written alsodisinthral.]
DISINTHRALLMENT
A releasing from thralldom or slavery; disenthrallment.[Written also disinthralment.]
DISINTRICATE
To disentangle. [R.] "To disintricate the question." Sir W.Hamilton.
DISINURE
To render unaccustomed or unfamiliar.We are hindered and disinured . . . towards the true knowledge.Milton.
DISINVESTITURE
The act of depriving of investiture. [Obs.] Ogilvie.
DISINVIGORATE
To enervate; to weaken. [R.] Sydney Smith.
DISINVOLVE
To uncover; to unfold or unroll; to disentangle. [R.] Dr. H.More.
DISJECTION
Destruction; dispersion. Bp. Horsley.
DISJOIN
To part; to disunite; to separate; to sunder.That marriage, therefore, God himself disjoins. Milton.Never let us lay down our arms against France, till we have utterlydisjoined her from the Spanish monarchy. Addison.Windmill Street consisted of disjoined houses. Pennant.
DISJOINT
Disjointed; unconnected; -- opposed to conjoint. Milton.
DISJOINTED
Separated at the joints; disconnected; incoherent.-- Dis*joint"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis*joint"ed*ness, n.
DISJOINTLY
In a disjointed state. Sandys.
DISJUDICATION
Judgment; discrimination. See Dijudication. [Obs.] Boyle.
DISJUNCT
Having the head, thorax, and abdomen separated by a deepconstriction. Disjunct tetrachords (Mus.), tetrachords so disposed toeach other that the gravest note of the upper is one note higher thanthe acutest note of the other.
DISJUNCTIVE
Pertaining to disjunct tetrachords. "Disjunctive notes." Moore(Encyc. of Music). Disjunctive conjunction (Gram.), one connectinggrammatically two words or clauses, expressing at the same time anopposition or separation inherent in the notions or thoughts; as,either, or, neither, nor, but, although, except, lest, etc.-- Disjunctive proposition, one in which the parts are connected bydisjunctive conjunctions; as it is either day or night.-- Disjunctive syllogism (Logic), one in which the major propositionis disjunctive; as, the earth moves in a circle or an ellipse; but indoes not move in a circle, therefore it moves in an ellipse.
DISJUNCTIVELY
In a disjunctive manner; separately. Dr. H. More.
DISJUNCTURE
The act of disjoining, or state of being disjoined; separation.Fuller.
DISK
The circular figure of a celestial body, as seen projected ofthe heavens.
DISK CLUTCH
A friction clutch in which the gripping surfaces are disks ormore or less resemble disks.
DISKINDNESS
Unkindness; disservice. [R.] A. Tucker.
DISKLESS
Having no disk; appearing as a point and not expanded into adisk, as the image of a faint star in a telescope.
DISLADE
To unlade. [Obs.] Heywood.
DISLEAL
Disloyal; perfidious. [Obs.] "Disleal knight." Spenser.
DISLEAVE
To deprive of leaves. [R.]The cankerworms that annually that disleaved the elms. Lowell.
DISLIKEFUL
Full of dislike; disaffected; malign; disagreeable. [Obs.]Spenser.
DISLIKELIHOOD
The want of likelihood; improbability. Sir W. Scott.
DISLIKEN
To make unlike; to disguise. [Obs.] Shak.
DISLIKENESS
Unlikeness. [R.] Locke.
DISLIKER
One who dislikes or disrelishes.
DISLIMB
To tear limb from limb; to dismember. [Obs.] Bailey.
DISLIMN
To efface, as a picture. [Obs.] Shak.
DISLINK
To unlink; to disunite; to separate. [R.] Tennyson.
DISLIVE
To deprive of life. [Obs.]Telemachus dislived Amphimedon. Chapman.
DISLOCATE
To displace; to put out of its proper place. Especially, of abone: To remove from its normal connections with a neighboring bone;to put out of joint; to move from its socket; to disjoint; as, todislocate your bones. Shak.After some time the strata on all sides of the globe were dislocated.Woodward.And thus the archbishop's see, dislocated or out of joint for a time,was by the hands of his holiness set right again. Fuller.
DISLOCATION
The displacement of parts of rocks or portions of strata fromthe situation which they originally occupied. Slips, faults, and thelike, are dislocations.
DISLODGE
To go from a place of rest. [R.]Where Light and Darkness in perpetual round Lodge and dislodge byturns. Milton.
DISLODGMENT
The act or process of dislodging, or the state of beingdislodged.
DISLOIGN
To put at a distance; to remove. [Obs.]Low-looking dales, disloigned from common gaze. Spenser.
DISLOYAL
Not loyal; not true to a sovereign or lawful superior, or tothe government under which one lives; false where allegiance is due;faithless; as, a subject disloyal to the king; a husband disloyal tohis wife.Without a thought disloyal. Mrs. Browning.
DISLOYALLY
In a disloyal manner.
DISLOYALTY
Want of loyalty; lack of fidelity; violation of allegiance.
DISMAIL
To divest of coat of mail. Spenser.
DISMALLY
In a dismal manner; gloomily; sorrowfully; uncomfortably.
DISMALNESS
The quality of being dismal; gloominess.
DISMAN
To unman. [Obs.] Feltham.
DISMARCH
To march away. [Obs.]
DISMARRY
To free from the bonds of marriage; to divorce. [Obs.] Ld.Berners.
DISMARSHAL
To disarrange; to derange; to put in disorder. [R.] Drummond.
DISMASK
To divest of a mask. Shak.
DISMAST
To deprive of a mast of masts; to break and carry away themasts from; as, a storm dismasted the ship.
DISMASTMENT
The act of dismasting; the state of being dismasted. [R.]Marshall.
DISMAW
To eject from the maw; to disgorge. [R.] Shelton.
DISMAY
To take dismay or fright; to be filled with dismay. [Obs.]Shak.
DISMAYEDNESS
A state of being dismayed; dejection of courage;dispiritedness.
DISMAYFUL
Terrifying. Spenser.
DISME
A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe. Ayliffe.
DISMEMBERMENT
The act of dismembering, or the state of being dismembered;cutting in piece; mThe Castilians would doubtless have resented the dismemberment of theunwieldy body of which they formed the head. Macaulay.
DISMETTLED
Destitute of mettle, that is, or fire or spirit. [R.]Llewellyn.
DISMISS
Dismission. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
DISMISSAL
Dismission; discharge.Officeholders were commanded faithfully to enforce it, upon pain ofimmediate dismissal. Motley.
DISMISSIVE
Giving dismission.
DISMORTGAGE
To redeem from mortgage. [Obs.] Howell.
DISMOUNT
To take down, or apart, as a machine.
DISNATURALIZE
To make alien; to deprive of the privileges of birth. Locke.
DISNATURED
Deprived or destitute of natural feelings; unnatural. [Obs.]Shak.
DISOBEDIENCE
Neglect or refusal to obey; violation of a command orprohibition.He is undutiful to him other actions, and lives in open disobedience.Tillotson.
DISOBEDIENCY
Disobedience.
DISOBEDIENTLY
In a disobedient manner.
DISOBEISANCE
Disobedience. [Obs.] E. Hall.
DISOBEISANT
Disobedient. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISOBEY
Not to obey; to neglect or refuse to obey (a superior or hiscommands, the laws, etc.); to transgress the commands of (one inauthority); to violate, as an order; as, refractory children disobeytheir parents; men disobey their Maker and the laws.Not to disobey her lord's behest. Tennyson.
DISOBEYER
One who disobeys.
DISOBLIGATORY
Releasing from obligation. "Disobligatory power." Charles I.
DISOBLIGEMENT
Release from obligation. [Obs.]
DISOBLIGER
One who disobliges.
DISOCCIDENT
To turn away from the west; to throw out of reckoning as tolongitude. [Obs.] Marvell.
DISOCCUPATION
The state of being unemployed; want of occupation. [R.]
DISOPINION
Want or difference of belief; disbelief. [Obs.] Bp. Reynolds.
DISOPPILATE
To open. [Obs.] Holland.
DISORB
To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere. Shak.
DISORD
Disorder. [Obs.] Holland.
DISORDEINED
Inordinate; irregular; vicious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISORDERLINESS
The state of being disorderly.
DISORDERLY
Offensive to good morals and public decency; notoriouslyoffensive; as, a disorderly house.
DISORDINANCE
Disarrangement; disturbance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISORDINATE
Inordinate; disorderly. [Obs.] "With disordinate gestures."Prynne.
DISORDINATELY
Inordinately. [Obs.] E. Hall.
DISORDINATION
The state of being in disorder; derangement; confusion. [Obs.]Bacon.
DISORGANIZE
To destroy the organic structure or regular system of (agovernment, a society, a party, etc.); to break up (what isorganized); to throw into utter disorder; to disarrange.Lyford . . . attempted to disorganize the church. Eliot (1809).
DISORGANIZER
One who disorganizes or causes disorder and confusion.
DISORIENT
To turn away from the cast; to confuse as to which way is east;to cause to lose one's bearings. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
DISORIENTATE
To turn away from the east, or (figuratively) from the right orthe truth. [R.]
DISOWNMENT
Act of disowning. [R.]
DISOXIDATE
To deoxidate; to deoxidize. [R.]
DISOXIDATION
Deoxidation. [R.]
DISOXYGENATE
To deprive of oxygen; to deoxidize. [R.]
DISOXYGENATION
Deoxidation. [R.]
DISPACE
To roam. [Obs.]In this fair plot dispacing to and fro. Spenser.
DISPAIR
To separate (a pair). [R.]I have . . . dispaired two doves. Beau. & Fl.
DISPAND
To spread out; to expand. [Obs.] Bailey.
DISPANSION
Act of dispanding, or state of being dispanded. [Obs.]
DISPARADISED
Removed from paradise. [R.] Cockeram.
DISPARAGE
Inequality in marriage; marriage with an inferior. [Obs.]Chaucer.Dissuaded her from such a disparage. Spenser.
DISPARAGER
One who disparages or dishonors; one who vilifies or disgraces.
DISPARAGINGLY
In a manner to disparage or dishonor; slightingly.
DISPARATE
Pertaining to two coรถrdinate species or divisions.
DISPARATES
Things so unequal or unlike that they can not be compared witheach other.
DISPARITION
Act of disappearing; disappearance. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DISPARITY
Inequality; difference in age, rank, condition, or excellence;dissimilitude; -- followed by between, in, of, as to, etc.; as,disparity in, or of, years; a disparity as to color.The disparity between God and his intelligent creatures. I. Taylor.The disparity of numbers was not such as ought to cause anyuneasiness. Macaulay.
DISPARKLE
To scatter abroad. [Obs.] Holland.
DISPART
To part asunder; to divide; to separate; to sever; to rend; torive or split; as, disparted air; disparted towers. [Archaic]Them in twelve troops their captain did dispart. Spenser.The world will be whole, and refuses to be disparted. Emerson.
DISPASSION
Freedom from passion; an undisturbed state; apathy. Sir W.Temple.
DISPASSIONED
Free from passion; dispassionate. [R.] "Dispassioned men."Donne.
DISPATCH
To make haste; to conclude an affair; to finish a matter ofbusiness.They have dispatched with Pompey. Shak.
DISPATCHER
One who dispatches.
DISPATCHFUL
Bent on haste; intent on speedy execution of business or anytask; indicating haste; quick; as, dispatchful looks. Milton.
DISPATCHMENT
The act of dispatching. [Obs.] State Trials (1529).
DISPATHY
Lack of sympathy; want of passion; apathy. [R.]Many discrepancies and some dispathies between us. Southey.
DISPAUPER
To deprive of the claim of a pauper to public support; todeprive of the privilege of suing in forma pauperis.
DISPAUPERIZE
To free a state of pauperism, or from paupers. J. S. Mill.
DISPEED
To send off with speed; to dispatch. [Obs.] Knolles.Then they dispeeded themselves of the Cid and of their mother-in-law,DoSouthey.
DISPEL
To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clearaway; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares,doubts, illusions.[Satan] gently raised their fainting courage, and dispelled theirfears. Milton.I saw myself the lambent easy light Gild the brown horror, and dispelthe night. Dryden.
DISPENCE
See Dispense. [Obs.]
DISPEND
To spend; to lay out; to expend. [Obs.] Spenser.Able to dispend yearly twenty pounds and above. Fuller.
DISPENDER
One who dispends or expends; a steward. [Obs.] Wyclif (1 Cor.iv. 1).
DISPENSABLENESS
Quality of being dispensable.
DISPENSATION
a system of principles, promises, and rules ordained andadministered; scheme; economy; as, the Patriarchal, Mosaic, andChristian dispensations.Neither are God's methods or intentions different in hisdispensations to each private man. Rogers.
DISPENSATIVE
Granting dispensation.
DISPENSATIVELY
By dispensation. Wotton.
DISPENSATOR
A distributer; a dispenser. Bacon.
DISPENSATORILY
In the way of dispensation; dispensatively.
DISPENSATORY
Granting, or authorized to grant, dispensations. "Dispensatorypower." Bp. Rainbow.
DISPENSE
Dispensation; exemption. [Obs.]
DISPENSER
One who, or that which, dispenses; a distributer; as, adispenser of favors.
DISPEOPLE
To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate.Leave the land dispeopled and desolate. Sir T. More.A certain island long before dispeopled . . . by sea rivers. Milton.
DISPEOPLER
One who, or that which, dispeoples; a depopulator. Gay.
DISPERGE
To sprinkle. [Obs.]
DISPERMOUS
Containing only two seeds; two-seeded.
DISPERPLE
To scatter; to sprinkle. [Obs.]Odorous water was Disperpled lightly on my head and neck. Chapman.
DISPERSAL
The act or result of dispersing or scattering; dispersion.Darwin.
DISPERSED
Scattered.-- Dis*pers"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis*pers"ed*ness, n. Dispersed harmony (Mus.), harmony in whichthe tones composing the chord are widely separated, as by an octaveor more.
DISPERSENESS
Dispersedness. [Obs.]
DISPERSER
One that disperses.
DISPERSION
The separation of light into its different colored rays,arising from their different refrangibilities. Dispersion of theoptic axes (Crystallog.), the separation of the optic axes in biaxialcrystals, due to the fact that the axial angle has different valuesfor the different colors of the spectrum.
DISPERSIVE
Tending to disperse. Dispersive power (Opt.), the relativeeffect of a material in separating the different rays of light byrefraction, as when the substance is formed into a prism.-- Dis*pers"ive*ness, n.
DISPERSONATE
To deprive of personality or individuality. [R.]We multiply; we dispersonate ourselves. Hare.
DISPIRITED
Depressed in spirits; disheartened; daunted.-- Dis*pir"it*ed*ly, adv.-- Dis*pir"it*ed, n.
DISPIRITMENT
Depression of spirits; discouragement. [R.]Procter, in evident distress and dispiritment, was waiting the slowconclusion of this. Carlyle.
DISPITEOUS
Full of despite; cruel; spiteful; pitiless. Spenser.-- Dis*pit"e*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]
DISPLACEABLE
Capable of being displaced.
DISPLACEMENT
The process of extracting soluble substances from organicmaterial and the like, whereby a quantity of saturated solvent isdisplaced, or removed, for another quantity of the solvent. Pistondisplacement (Mech.), the volume of the space swept through, orweight of steam, water, etc., displaced, in a given time, by thepiston of a steam engine or pump.
DISPLACENCY
Want of complacency or gratification; envious displeasure;dislike. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DISPLACER
The funnel part of the apparatus for solution by displacement.
DISPLANTATION
The act of displanting; removal; displacement. Sir W. Raleigh.
DISPLAT
To untwist; to uncurl; to unplat. [Obs.] Hakewill.
DISPLAY
To extend the front of (a column), bringing it into line.Farrow.
DISPLAYED
With wings expanded; -- said of a bird of pray, esp. an eagle.
DISPLAYER
One who, or that which, displays.
DISPLE
To discipline; to correct. [Obs.]And bitter Penance, with an iron whip, Was wont him once to displeevery day. Spenser.
DISPLEASANCE
Displeasure; discontent; annoyance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISPLEASANT
Unpleasing; offensive; unpleasant. [Obs.] Speed.-- Dis*pleas"ant*ly, adv. [Obs.] Strype.-- Dis*pleas"ant*ness, n. [Obs.]
DISPLEASE
To give displeasure or offense. [Obs.]
DISPLEASEDLY
With displeasure. [R.]
DISPLEASEDNESS
Displeasure. [R.] South.
DISPLEASER
One who displeases.
DISPLEASING
Causing displeasure or dissatisfaction; offensive;disagreeable.-- Dis*pleas"ing*ly, adv.-- Dis*pleas"ing*ness, n. Locke.
DISPLEASURE
To displease. [Obs.] Bacon.
DISPLENISH
To deprive or strip, as a house of furniture, or a barn ofstock. [Scot.]
DISPLODE
To discharge; to explode.In posture to displode their second tire Of thunder. Milton.
DISPLOSION
Explosion.The vast displosion dissipates the clouds. Young.
DISPLOSIVE
Explosive.
DISPLUME
To strip of, or as of, a plume, or plumes; to deprive ofdecoration; to dishonor; to degrade.Displumed, degraded, and metamorphosed. Burke.
DISPOLINE
One of several isomeric organic bases of the quinoline seriesof alkaloids.
DISPOND
See Despond.
DISPONDEE
A double spondee; a foot consisting of four long syllables.
DISPONE
To dispose.
DISPONEE
The person to whom any property is legally conveyed.
DISPONER
One who legally transfers property from himself to another.
DISPONGE
To sprinkle, as with water from a sponge. [Poetic & Rare][Written also dispunge.]O sovereign mistress of true melancholy, The poisonous damp of nightdisponge upon me. Shak.
DISPOPE
To refuse to consider as pope; to depose from the popedom.One whom they disposed. Tennyson.
DISPOROUS
Having two spores.
DISPORT
Play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness. Milton.
DISPORTMENT
Act of disporting; diversion; play. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DISPOSABLE
Subject to disposal; free to be used or employed as occasionmay require; not assigned to any service or use.The great of this kingdom . . . has easily afforded a disposablesurplus. Burke.
DISPOSE
To bargain; to make terms. [Obs.]She had disposed with Cรฆsar. Shak.
DISPOSEDNESS
The state of being disposed or inclined; inclination;propensity. [R.]
DISPOSEMENT
Disposal. [Obs.] Goodwin.
DISPOSER
One who, or that which, disposes; a regulator; a director; abestower.Absolute lord and disposer of all things. Barrow.
DISPOSINGLY
In a manner to dispose.
DISPOSITED
Disposed. [Obs.] Glanvill.
DISPOSITIONAL
Pertaining to disposition.
DISPOSITIONED
Having (such) a disposition; -- used in compounds; as, well-dispositioned.
DISPOSITIVELY
In a dispositive manner; by natural or moral disposition.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.Do dispositively what Moses is recorded to have done literally, . . .break all the ten commandments at once. Boyle.
DISPOSITOR
The planet which is lord of the sign where another planet is.[Obs.] Crabb.
DISPOSSESS
To put out of possession; to deprive of the actual occupancyof, particularly of land or real estate; to disseize; to eject; --usually followed by of before the thing taken away; as, to dispossessa king of his crown.Usurp the land, and dispossess the swain. Goldsmith.
DISPOSSESSION
The putting out of possession, wrongfully or otherwise, of onewho is in possession of a freehold, no matter in what title; --called also ouster.
DISPOSSESSOR
One who dispossesses. Cowley.
DISPOST
To eject from a post; to displace. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).
DISPRAISABLE
Blamable. [R.]
DISPRAISE
To withdraw praise from; to notice with disapprobation or somedegree of censure; to disparage; to blame.Dispraising the power of his adversaries. Chaucer.I dispraised him before the wicked, that the wicked might not fall inlove with him. Shak.
DISPRAISER
One who blames or dispraises.
DISPRAISINGLY
By way of dispraise.
DISPREAD
To spread abroad, or different ways; to spread apart; to open;as, the sun dispreads his beams. Spenser.
DISPREADER
One who spreads abroad.Dispreaders both of vice and error. Milton.
DISPREJUDICE
To free from prejudice. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
DISPREPARE
To render unprepared. [Obs.] Hobbes.
DISPRINCE
To make unlike a prince. [R.]For I was drench'd with ooze, and torn with briers, . . . And, allone rag, disprinced from head to heel. Tennyson.
DISPRISON
To let loose from prison, to set all liberty. [R.] Bulwer.
DISPRIVILEGE
To deprive of a privilege or privileges. [R.]
DISPRIZE
To do preciate. [R.] Cotton (Ode to Lydia).
DISPROFESS
To renounce the profession or pursuit of.His arms, which he had vowed to disprofess. Spenser.
DISPROFIT
Loss; damage. Foxe.
DISPROFITABLE
Unprofitable. [Obs.]
DISPROOF
A proving to be false or erroneous; confutation; refutation;as, to offer evidence in disproof of a statement.I need not offer anything farther in support of one, or in disproofof the other. Rogers.
DISPROPERTY
To cause to be no longer property; to dispossess of. [R.] Shak.
DISPROPORTION
To make unsuitable in quantity, form, or fitness to an end; toviolate symmetry in; to mismatch; to join unfitly.To shape my legs of an unequal size; To disproportion me in everypart. Shak.A degree of strength altogether disproportioned to the extent of itsterritory. Prescott.
DISPROPORTIONABLE
Disproportional; unsuitable in form, size, quantity, oradaptation; disproportionate; inadequate.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*a*ble*ness, n. Hammond.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*a*bly, adv.
DISPROPORTIONAL
Not having due proportion to something else; not havingproportion or symmetry of parts; unsuitable in form, quantity orvalue; inadequate; unequal; as, a disproportional limb constitutesdeformity in the body; the studies of youth should not bedisproportional to their understanding.
DISPROPORTIONALITY
The state of being disproportional. Dr. H. More.
DISPROPORTIONALLY
In a disproportional manner; unsuitably in form, quantity, orvalue; unequally.
DISPROPORTIONATE
Not proportioned; unsymmetrical; unsuitable to something elsein bulk, form, value, or extent; out of proportion; inadequate; as,in a perfect body none of the limbs are disproportionate; it iswisdom not to undertake a work disproportionate means.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*ate*ly, adv.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*ate*ness, n.
DISPROPRIATE
To cancel the appropriation of; to disappropriate. [R.]
DISPROVABLE
Capable of being disproved or refuted. Boyle.
DISPROVAL
Act of disproving; disproof. [R.]
DISPROVER
One who disproves or confutes.
DISPROVIDE
Not to provide; to fail to provide. [Obs.] Boyle.
DISPUNCT
Wanting in punctilious respect; discourteous. [Obs.]That were dispunct to the ladies. B. Jonson.
DISPUNGE
To expunge; to erase. [Obs.]
DISPUNISHABLE
Without penal restraint; not punishable. [R.] Swift.
DISPURPOSE
To dissuade; to frustrate; as, to dispurpose plots. [R.] A.Brewer.
DISPURSE
To disburse. [Obs.] Shak.
DISPURVEY
To disfurnish; to strip. [Obs.] Heywood.
DISPURVEYANCE
Want of provisions; [Obs.] Spenser.
DISPUTABLENESS
State of being disputable.
DISPUTACITY
Proneness to dispute. [Obs.] Bp. Ward.
DISPUTANT
Disputing; engaged in controversy. Milton.
DISPUTATIOUS
Inclined to dispute; apt to civil or controvert; characterizedby dispute; as, a disputatious person or temper.The Christian doctrine of a future life was no recommendation of thenew religion to the wits and philosophers of that disputationsperiod. Buckminster.-- Dis`pu*ta"tious*ly, adv.-- Dis`pu*ta"tious*ness, n.
DISPUTATIVE
Disposed to dispute; inclined to cavil or to reason inopposition; as, a disputative temper. I. Watts.
DISPUTE
To contend in argument; to argue against something maintained,upheld, or claimed, by another; to discuss; to reason; to debate; toaltercate; to wrangle.Therefore disputed [reasoned, Rev. Ver.] he in synagogue with the Jews. Acts xvii. 17.
DISPUTELESS
Admitting no dispute; incontrovertible. Bailey.
DISPUTER
One who disputes, or who is given to disputes; a controvertist.Where is the disputer of this world 1 Cor. i. 20.
DISPUTISON
Dispute; discussion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISQUANTITY
To diminish the quantity of; to lessen. [Obs.] Shak.
DISQUIET
Deprived of quiet; impatient; restless; uneasy. [R.] Shak.
DISQUIETAL
The act of disquieting; a state of disquiet. [Obs.][It] roars and strives 'gainst its disquietal. Dr. H. More.
DISQUIETER
One who, or that which, disquiets, or makes uneasy; adisturber.
DISQUIETFUL
Producing inquietude or uneasiness. [R.] Barrow.
DISQUIETIVE
Tending to disquiet. [R.]
DISQUIETLY
In a disquiet manner; uneasily; as, he rested disquietly thatnight. [R.] Wiseman.
DISQUIETMENT
State of being disquieted; uneasiness; harassment. [R.]Hopkins.
DISQUIETNESS
Disturbance of quiet in body or mind; restlessness; uneasiness.Hooker.
DISQUIETOUS
Causing uneasiness. [R.]So distasteful and disquietous to a number of men. Milton.
DISQUIETTUDE
Want of peace or tranquility; uneasiness; disturbance;agitation; anxiety.Fears and disquietude, and unavoidable anxieties of mind. Abp. Sharp.
DISQUISITION
A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, anysubject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with thearguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation.For accurate research or grave disquisition he was not wellqualified. Macaulay.
DISQUISITIONAL
Pertaining to disquisition; of the nature of disquisition.
DISQUISITIONARY
Pertaining to disquisition; disquisitional.
DISQUISITIVE
Relating to disquisition; fond discussion or investigation;examining; inquisitive.
DISQUISITORIAL
Disquisitory.
DISQUISITORY
Of or pertaining to disquisition; disquisitive. Ed. Rev.
DISRANGE
To disarrange. [Obs.] Wood.
DISRATE
To reduce to a lower rating or rank; to degrade. Marryat.
DISRAY
of Disarray. [Obs.] Holland.
DISREALIZE
To divest of reality; to make uncertain. [Obs.] Udall.
DISREGARD
Not to regard; to pay no heed to; to omit to take notice of; toneglect to observe; to slight as unworthy of regard or notice; as, todisregard the admonitions of conscience.Studious of good, man disregarded fame. Blackmore.
DISREGARDER
One who disregards.
DISREGARDFUL
Neglect; negligent; heedless; regardless.
DISREGARDFULLY
Negligently; heedlessly.
DISREMEMBER
To fail to remember; to forget. [Obs. or Archaic]
DISREPAIR
A state of being in bad condition, and wanting repair.The fortifications were ancient and in disrepair. Sir W. Scott.
DISREPUTABILITY
The state of being disreputable. [R.]
DISREPUTABLE
Not reputable; of bad repute; not in esteem; dishonorable;disgracing the reputation; tending to bring into disesteem; as, it isdisreputable to associate familiarly with the mean, the lewd, and theprofane.Why should you think that conduct disreputable in priests which youprobably consider as laudable in yourself Bp. Watson.
DISREPUTABLY
In a disreputable manner.
DISREPUTATION
Loss or want of reputation or good name; dishonor; disrepute;disesteem. "A disreputation of piety." Jer. Taylor.
DISREPUTE
Loss or want of reputation; ill character; disesteem;discredit.At the beginning of the eighteenth century astrology fell intogeneral disrepute. Sir W. Scott.
DISRESPECT
Want of respect or reverence; disesteem; incivility;discourtesy.Impatience of bearing the least affront or disrespect. Pope.
DISRESPECTABILITY
Want of respectability. Thackeray.
DISRESPECTABLE
Not respectable; disreputable. M. Arnold.
DISRESPECTER
One who disrespects.
DISRESPECTFUL
Wanting in respect; manifesting disesteem or lack of respect;uncivil; as, disrespectful behavior.-- Dis`re*spect"ful*ly, adv.-- Dis`re*spect"ful*ness, n.
DISRESPECTIVE
Showing want of respect; disrespectful. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DISREVERENCE
To treat irreverently or with disrespect. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
DISROBE
To divest of a robe; to undress; figuratively, to strip ofcovering; to divest of that which clothes or decorates; as, autumndisrobes the fields of verdure.Two great peers were disrobed of their glory. Sir H. Wotton.
DISROBER
One who, or that which, disrobes.
DISROOF
To unroof. [R.] Carlyle.
DISROOT
To tear up the roots of, or by the roots; hence, to tear from afoundation; to uproot.A piece of ground disrooted from its situation by subterraneousinundations. Goldsmith.
DISROUT
To put to rout. Taylor (1630).
DISRUDDER
To deprive of the rudder, as a ship.
DISRULILY
In a disorderly manner. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
DISRULY
Unruly; disorderly. [Obs.]
DISRUPT
Rent off; torn asunder; severed; disrupted.
DISRUPTION
The act or rending asunder, or the state of being rent asunderor broken in pieces; breach; rent; dilaceration; rupture; as, thedisruption of rocks in an earthquake; disruption of a state.
DISRUPTIVE
Causing, or tending to cause, disruption; caused by disruption;breaking through; bursting; as, the disruptive discharge of anelectrical battery. Nichol.
DISRUPTURE
Disruption. [R.] Jefferson.
DISSATISFACTION
The state of being dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or discontented;uneasiness proceeding from the want of gratification, or fromdisappointed wishes and expectations.The ambitious man has little happiness, but is subject to muchuneasiness and dissatisfaction. Addison.
DISSATISFACTORY
Causing dissatisfaction; unable to give content;unsatisfactory; displeasing.To have reduced the different qualifications in the different Statesto one uniform rule, would probably have been as dissatisfactory tosome of the States, as difficult for the Convention. A. Hamilton.-- Dis*sat`is*fac"to*ri*ness, n.
DISSATISFY
To render unsatisfied or discontented; to excite uneasiness inby frustrating wishes or expectations; to displease by the want ofsomething requisite; as, to be dissatisfied with one's fortune.The dissatisfied factions of the autocracy. Bancroft.
DISSEAT
To unseat. [R.] Shak.
DISSECT
To divide into separate parts; to cut in pieces; to separateand expose the parts of, as an animal or a plant, for examination andto show their structure and relations; to anatomize.
DISSECTED
Cut deeply into many lobes or divisions; as, a dissected leaf.
DISSECTIBLE
Capable of being dissected, or separated by dissection. Paley.
DISSECTOR
One who dissects; an anatomist.
DISSEIZE
To deprive of seizin or possession; to dispossess or oustwrongfully (one in freehold possession of land); -- followed by of;as, to disseize a tenant of his freehold. [Written also disseise.]Which savage beasts strive as eagerly to keep and hold those goldenmines, as the Arimaspians to disseize them thereof. Holland.
DISSEIZEE
A person disseized, or put out of possession of an estateunlawfully; -- correlative to disseizor. [Written also disseisee.]
DISSEIZIN
The act of disseizing; an unlawful dispossessing and ouster ofa person actually seized of the freehold. [Written also disseisin.]Blackstone.
DISSEIZOR
One who wrongfully disseizes, or puts another out of possessionof a freehold. [Written also disseisor.] Blackstone.
DISSEIZORESS
A woman disseizes.
DISSEIZURE
Disseizin. Speed.
DISSEMBLANCE
Want of resemblance; dissimilitude. [R.] Osborne.
DISSEMBLE
To conceal the real fact, motives,He that hateth dissembleth with his lips. Prov. xxvi. 24.He [an enemy] dissembles when he assumes an air of friendship. C. J.Smith.
DISSEMBLER
One who dissembles; one who conceals his opinions ordispositions under a false appearance; a hypocrite.It is the weakest sort of politicians that are the greatestdissemblers. Bacon.Priests, princes, women, no dissemblers here. Pope.
DISSEMBLING
That dissembles; hypocritical; false.-- Dis*sem"bling*ly, adv.
DISSEMINATED
Occurring in small portions scattered through some othersubstance.
DISSEMINATION
The act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated;diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreadingabroad, as of ideas, beliefs, etc.The universal dissemination of those writings. Wayland.
DISSEMINATIVE
Tending to disseminate, or to become disseminated.The effect of heresy is, like the plague, infectious anddisseminative. Jer. Taylor.
DISSEMINATOR
One who, or that which, disseminates, spreads, or propagates;as, disseminators of disease.
DISSENSION
Disagreement in opinion, usually of a violent character,producing warm debates or angry words; contention in words; partisanand contentious divisions; breach of friendship and union; strife;discord; quarrel.Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them.Acts xv. 2.Debates, dissension, uproars are thy joy. Dryden.A seditious person and raiser-up of dissension among the people.Robynson (More's Utopia).
DISSENSIOUS
Disposed to discord; contentious; dissentious. [R.] Ascham.-- Dis*sen"sious*ly, adv. Chapman.
DISSENT
To differ from an established church in regard to doctrines,rites, or government.
DISSENTANEOUS
Disagreeing; contrary; differing; -- opposed to consentaneous.[R.] Barrow.
DISSENTANY
Dissentaneous; inconsistent. [Obs.] Milton.
DISSENTATION
Dissension. [Obs.] W. Browne.
DISSENTER
One who separates from the service and worship of anestablished church; especially, one who disputes the authority ortenets of the Church of England; a nonconformist.Dissenters from the establishment of their several countries. Burke.Robert Brown is said to have the first formal dissenter. Shipley.
DISSENTERISM
The spirit or principles of dissenters. Ed. Rev.
DISSENTIATE
To throw into a state of dissent. [R.] Feltham.
DISSENTIENT
Disagreeing; declaring dissent; dissenting.-- n.
DISSENTIOUS
Marked by dissensions; apt to breed discord; quarrelsome;contentious; factious.-- Dis*sen"tious*ly, adv.
DISSENTIVE
Disagreeing; inconsistent. [Obs.] Feltham.
DISSEPIMENT
One of the partitions which divide a compound ovary into cells.
DISSERT
To discourse or dispute; to discuss. [R.]We have disserted upon it a little longer than was necessary.Jeffrey.
DISSERTATE
To deal in dissertation; to write dissertations; to discourse.[R.] J. Foster.
DISSERTATION
A formal or elaborate argumentative discourse, oral or written;a disquisition; an essay; a discussion; as, Dissertations on theProphecies.
DISSERTATIONAL
Relating to dissertations; resembling a dissertation.
DISSERTATIONIST
A writer of dissertations.
DISSERTATOR
One who writers a dissertation; one who discourses. Boyle.
DISSERTLY
See Disertly. [Obs.]
DISSERVE
To fail to serve; to do injury or mischief to; to damage; tohurt; to harm.Have neither served nor disserved the interests of any party. Jer.Taylor.
DISSERVICE
Injury; mischief.We shall rather perform good offices unto truth than any disserviceunto their relators. Sir T. Browne.
DISSERVICEABLE
Calculated to do disservice or harm; not serviceable;injurious; harmful; unserviceable. Shaftesbury.-- Dis*serv"ice*a*ble*ness, n. Norris.-- Dis*serv"ice*a*bly, adv.
DISSETTLE
To unsettle. [Obs.]
DISSETTLEMENT
The act of unsettling, or the state of being unsettled.Marvell.
DISSEVER
To part in two; to sever thoroughly; to sunder; to disunite; toseparate; to disperse.The storm so dissevered the company . . . that most of therm nevermet again. Sir P. Sidney.States disserved, discordant, belligerent. D. Webster.
DISSEVERANCE
The act of disserving; separation.
DISSEVERATION
The act of disserving; disseverance. [Obs.]
DISSEVERMENT
Disseverance. Sir W. Scott.
DISSHADOW
To free from shadow or shade. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
DISSHEATHE
To become unsheathed. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
DISSHIP
To dismiss from service on board ship. [Obs.] Hakluyt.
DISSHIVER
To shiver or break in pieces. [Obs.]
DISSIDENCE
Disagreement; dissent; separation from the establishedreligion. I. Taylor.It is the dissidence of dissent. Burke.
DISSIDENT
No agreeing; dissenting; discordant; different.Our life and manners be dissident from theirs. Robynson (More'sUtopia).
DISSIDENTLY
In a dissident manner.
DISSILIENT
Starting asunder; bursting and opening with an elastic force;dehiscing explosively; as, a dissilient pericarp.
DISSILITION
The act of bursting or springing apart. [R.] Boyle.
DISSIMILAR
Not similar; unlike; heterogeneous; as, the tempers of men areas dissimilar as their features.This part very dissimilar to any other. Boyle.
DISSIMILARITY
Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilitude; variety; as,the dissimilarity of human faces and forms. Sir W. Jones.
DISSIMILARLY
In a dissimilar manner; in a varied style.With verdant shrubs dissimilarly gay. C. Smart.
DISSIMILATE
To render dissimilar.
DISSIMILATION
The act of making dissimilar. H. Sweet.
DISSIMILE
Comparison or illustration by contraries.
DISSIMILITUDE
A comparison by contrast; a dissimile.
DISSIMULATE
Feigning; simulating; pretending. [Obs.] Henryson.
DISSIMULATION
The act of dissembling; a hiding under a false appearance;concealment by feigning; false pretension; hypocrisy.Let love be without dissimulation. Rom. xii. 9.Dissimulation . . . when a man lets fall signs and arguments that heis not that he is. Bacon.Simulation is a pretense of what is not, and dissimulation aconcealment of what is. Tatler.
DISSIMULATOR
One who dissimulates; a dissembler.
DISSIMULE
To dissemble. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISSIMULER
A dissembler. [Obs.]
DISSIMULOUR
A dissembler. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DISSIPABLE
Capable of being scattered or dissipated. [R.]The heat of those plants is very dissipable. Bacon.
DISSIPATIVE
Tending to dissipate. Dissipative system (Mech.), an assumedsystem of matter and motions in which forces of friction andresistances of other kinds are introduced without regard to the heator other molecular actions which they generate; -- opposed toconservative system.
DISSIPATIVITY
The rate at which palpable energy is dissipated away into otherforms of energy.
DISSITE
Lying apart. [Obs.]Lands far dissite and remote asunder. Holland.
DISSLANDER
To slander. [Obs.] Legend of Dido.
DISSLANDEROUS
Slanderous. [Obs.]
DISSOCIABILITY
Want of sociability; unsociableness. Bp. Warburton.
DISSOCIAL
Unfriendly to society; contracted; selfish; as, dissocialfeelings.
DISSOCIALIZE
To render unsocial.
DISSOCIATE
To separate from fellowship or union; to disunite; to disjoin;as, to dissociate the particles of a concrete substance.Before Wyclif's death in 1384, John of Gaunt had openly dissociatedhimself from the reformer. A. W. Ward.
DISSOCIATION
The process by which a compound body breaks up into simplerconstituents; -- said particularly of the action of heat on gaseousor volatile substances; as, the dissociation of the sulphurmolecules; the dissociation of ammonium chloride into hydrochloricacid and ammonia.
DISSOCIATIVE
Tending or leading to dissociation.
DISSOLUBILITY
The quality of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissoluble;capacity of being dissolved by heat or moisture, and converted into afluid.
DISSOLUBLENESS
The quality of being dissoluble; dissolubility. Boyle.
DISSOLUTELY
In a dissolute manner.
DISSOLUTENESS
State or quality of being dissolute; looseness of morals andmanners; addictedness to sinful pleasures; debauchery; dissipation.Chivalry had the vices of dissoluteness. Bancroft.
DISSOLVABILITY
Capacity of being dissolved; solubility. Richardson.
DISSOLVABLE
Capable of being dissolved, or separated into component parts;capable of being liquefied; soluble.-- Dis*solv"a*ble*ness, n.Though everything which is compacted be in its own naturedissolvable. Cudworth.Such things as are not dissolvable by the moisture of the tongue. SirI. Newton.
DISSOLVATIVE
Having the power to dissolve anything; solvent. [Obs.]Frampton.
DISSOLVE
To annul; to rescind; to discharge or release; as, to dissolvean injunction.
DISSOLVENT
Having power to dissolve power to dissolve a solid body; as,the dissolvent juices of the stomach. Ray.
DISSOLVER
One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate.Thou kind dissolver of encroaching care. Otway.
DISSOLVING
Melting; breaking up; vanishing.-- Dis*solv"ing*ly, adv. Dissolving view, a picture which grows dimand is gradually replaced by another on the same field; -- an effectproduced by magic lanterns.
DISSONANCY
Discord; dissonance.
DISSPIRIT
See Dispirit.
DISSUADER
One who dissuades; a dehorter.
DISSUASIVE
Tending to dissuade or divert from a measure or purpose;dehortatory; as, dissuasive advice.-- n.
DISSUASORY
A dissuasive. [R.]This virtuous and reasonable person, however, has ill luck in all hisdissuasories. Jeffrey.
DISSUNDER
To separate; to sunder; to destroy. [R.] Chapman.
DISSWEETEN
To deprive of sweetness. [R.] Bp. Richardson.
DISSYLLABIC
Consisting of two syllabas, a dissyllabic foot in poetry. B.Jons
DISSYLLABIFICATION
A formi
DISSYLLABIFY
To form into two syllables. Ogilvie.
DISSYLLABIZE
To form into two syllables; to dyssyllabify.
DISSYLLABLE
A word of two syllables; as, pa-per.
DISSYMMETRICAL
Not having symmetry; asymmetrical; unsymmetrical.
DISSYMMETRY
Absence or defect of symmetry; asymmetry.
DISSYMPATHY
Lack of sympathy; want of interest; indifference. [R.]
DISTAD
Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally.
DISTAIN
To tinge with a different color from the natural or proper one;to stain; to discolor; to sully; to tarnish; to defile; -- usedchiefly in poetry. "Distained with dirt and blood." Spenser.[She] hath . . . distained her honorable blood. Spenser.The worthiness of praise distains his worth. Shak.
DISTALLY
Toward a distal part.
DISTANCE
A space marked out in the last part of a race course.The horse that ran the whole field out of distance. L'Estrange.
DISTANCY
Distance. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DISTANTIAL
Distant. [Obs.]More distantial from the eye. W. Montagu.
DISTANTLY
At a distance; remotely; with reserve.
DISTASTE
To be distasteful; to taste ill or disagreeable. [Obs.]Dangerous conceits are, in their natures, poisons, Which at the arescarce found to distaste. Shak.
DISTASTEIVE
Tending to excite distaste. [Obs.] -- n.
DISTASTURE
Something which excites distaste or disgust. [Obs.] Speed.
DISTEMPER
To mix (colors) in the way of distemper; as, to distempercolors with size. [R.]
DISTEMPERANCE
Distemperature. [Obs.]
DISTEMPERATELY
Unduly. [Obs.]
DISTEMPERMENT
Distempered state; distemperature. [Obs.] Feltham.
DISTEND
To become expanded or inflated; to swell. "His heart distendswith pride." Milton.
DISTENSIBILITY
The quality or capacity of being distensible. [R.]
DISTENSIBLE
Capable of being distended or dilated.
DISTENSION
Same as Distention.
DISTENSIVE
Distending, or capable of being distended.
DISTENT
Distended. [Poetic] Thomson.
DISTER
To banish or drive from a country. [Obs.] Howell.
DISTERMINATE
Separated by bounds. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DISTERMINATION
Separation by bounds. [Obs.] Hammond.
DISTHENE
Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequalhardness in two different directions. See Cyanite.
DISTHRONE
To dethrone. [Obs.]
DISTHRONIZE
To dethrone. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISTICH
A couple of verses or poetic lines making complete sense; anepigram of two verses.
DISTICHOUSLY
In a distichous manner.
DISTIL
See Distill.
DISTILLABLE
Capable of being distilled; especially, capable of beingdistilled without chemical change or decomposition; as, alcohol isdistillable; olive oil is not distillable.
DISTILLATE
The product of distillation; as, the distillate from molasses.
DISTILLATION
The separation of the volatile parts of a substance from themore fixed; specifically, the operation of driving off gas or vaporfrom volatile liquids or solids, by heat in a retort or still, andthe condensation of the products as far as possible by a coolreceiver, alembic, or condenser; rectification; vaporization;condensation; as, the distillation of illuminating gas and coal, ofalcohol from sour mash, or of boric acid in steam.
DISTILLATORY
Belonging to, or used in, distilling; as, distillatory vessels.-- n.
DISTILLMENT
Distillation; the substance obtained by distillation. [Obs.]Shak.
DISTINCT
To distinguish. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
DISTINCTIVELY
With distinction; plainly.
DISTINCTIVENESS
State of being distinctive.
DISTINCTURE
Distinctness. [R.]
DISTINGUISHABLENESS
The quality of being distinguishable.
DISTINGUISHABLY
So as to be distinguished.
DISTINGUISHEDLY
In a distinguished manner. [R.] Swift.
DISTINGUISHING
Constituting difference, or distinction from everything else;distinctive; peculiar; characteristic.The distinguishing doctrines of our holy religion. Locke.Distinguishing pennant (Naut.), a special pennant by which anyparticular vessel in a fleet is recognized and signaled. Simmonds.
DISTINGUISHINGLY
With distinction; with some mark of preference. Pope.
DISTINGUISHMENT
Observation of difference; distinction. Graunt.
DISTITLE
To deprive of title or right. [R.] B. Jonson.
DISTOMA
A genus of parasitic, trematode worms, having two suckers forattaching themselves to the part they infest. See 1st Fluke,
DISTORT
Distorted; misshapen. [Obs.]Her face was ugly and her mouth distort. Spenser.
DISTORTER
One who, or that which, distorts.
DISTORTION
An unnatural deviation of shape or position of any part of thebody producing visible deformity.
DISTORTIVE
Causing distortion.
DISTRACTED
Mentally disordered; unsettled; mad.My distracted mind. Pope.
DISTRACTEDLY
Disjointedly; madly. Shak.
DISTRACTEDNESS
A state of being distracted; distraction. Bp. Hall.
DISTRACTER
One who, or that which, distracts away.
DISTRACTFUL
Distracting. [R.] Heywood.
DISTRACTIBLE
Capable of being drawn aside or distracted.
DISTRACTILE
Tending or serving to draw apart.
DISTRACTING
Tending or serving to distract.
DISTRACTIOUS
Distractive. [Obs.]
DISTRACTIVE
Causing perplexity; distracting. "Distractive thoughts." Bp.Hall.
DISTRAIN
To levy a distress.Upon whom I can distrain for debt. Camden.
DISTRAINABLE
Capable of being, or liable to be, distrained. Blackstone.
DISTRAINER
Same as Distrainor.
DISTRAINOR
One who distrains; the party distraining goods or chattels.Blackstone.
DISTRAINT
The act or proceeding of seizing personal property by distress.Abbott.
DISTRAIT
Absent-minded; lost in thought; abstracted.
DISTRAUGHTED
Distracted. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISTREAM
To flow. [Poetic]Yet o'er that virtuous blush distreams a tear. Shenstone.
DISTRESS
To seize for debt; to distrain.
DISTRESSEDNESS
A state of being distressed or greatly pained.
DISTRESSFUL
Full of distress; causing, indicating, or attended with,distress; as, a distressful situation. "Some distressful stroke."Shak. "Distressful cries." Pope.-- Dis*tress"ful*ly, adv.
DISTRESSING
Causing distress; painful; unpleasant.
DISTRIBUTABLE
Capable of being distributed. Sir W. Jones.
DISTRIBUTARY
Tending to distribute or be distributed; that distributes;distributive.
DISTRIBUTE
To employ (a term) in its whole extent; to take as universal inone premise.A term is said to be distributed when it is taken universal, so as tostand for everything it is capable of being applied to. Whately.
DISTRIBUTER
One who, or that which, distributes or deals out anything; adispenser. Addison.
DISTRIBUTING
That distributes; dealing out. Distributing past office, anoffice where the mails for a large district are collected to beassorted according to their destination and forwarded.
DISTRIBUTION
A resolving a whole into its parts.
DISTRIBUTIONAL
Of or pertaining to distribution. Huxley.
DISTRIBUTIONIST
A distributer. [R.] Dickens.
DISTRIBUTIVE
Assigning the species of a general term.
DISTRIBUTIVELY
By distribution; singly; not collectively; in a distributivemanner.
DISTRIBUTIVENESS
Quality of being distributive.
DISTRICT
Rigorous; stringent; harsh. [Obs.]Punishing with the rod of district severity. Foxe.
DISTRICTION
Sudden display; flash; glitter. [R.]A smile . . . breaks out with the brightest distriction. Collier.
DISTRICTLY
Strictly. [Obs.] Foxe.
DISTRINGAS
A writ commanding the sheriff to distrain a person by his goodsor chattels, to compel a compliance with something required of him.
DISTROUBLE
To trouble. [Obs.] Spenser.
DISTRUST
To feel absence of trust in; not to confide in or rely upon; todeem of questionable sufficiency or reality; to doubt; to besuspicious of; to mistrust.Not distrusting my health. 2 Mac. ix. 22.To distrust the justice of your cause. Dryden.He that requireth the oath doth distrust that other. Udall.Of all afraid, Distrusting all, a wise, suspicious maid. Collins.
DISTRUSTER
One who distrusts.
DISTRUSTING
That distrusts; suspicious; lacking confidence in.-- Dis*trust"ing*ly, adv.
DISTRUSTLESS
Free from distrust. Shenstone.
DISTUNE
To put out of tune. [Obs.]
DISTURB
Disturbance. [Obs.] Milton.
DISTURBANCE
The hindering or disquieting of a person in the lawful andpeaceable enjoyment of his right; the interruption of a right; as,the disturbance of a franchise, of common, of ways, and the like.Blackstone.
DISTURBATION
Act of disturbing; disturbance. [Obs.] Daniel.
DISTURBER
One who interrupts or incommodes another in the peaceableenjoyment of his right.
DISTURN
To turn aside. [Obs.] Daniel.
DISTYLE
Having two columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, orthe like. Distyle in antis, having columns between two antรฆ. SeeAnta.
DISULPHIDE
A binary compound of sulphur containing two atoms of sulphur ineach molecule; -- formerly called disulphuret. Cf. Bisulphide.
DISULPHURET
See Disulphide.
DISULPHURIC
Applied to an acid having in each molecule two atoms of sulphurin the higher state of oxidation. Disulphuric acid, a thick oilyliquid, H2S2O7, called also Nordhausen acid (from Nordhausen in theHarts, where it was originally manufactured), fuming sulphuric acid,and especially pyrosulphuric acid. See under Pyrosulphuric.
DISUNIFORM
Not uniform. [Obs.]
DISUNIONIST
An advocate of disunion, specifically, of disunion of theUnited States.
DISUNITE
To part; to fall asunder; to become separated.The joints of the body politic do separate and disunite. South.
DISUNITER
One who, or that which, disjoins or causes disunion.
DISUNITY
A state of separation or disunion; want of unity. Dr. H. More.
DISUSAGE
Gradual cessation of use or custom; neglect of use; disuse.[R.] Hooker.
DISUSE
Cessation of use, practice, or exercise; inusitation;desuetude; as, the limbs lose their strength by disuse.The disuse of the tongue in the only . . . remedy. Addison.Church discipline then fell into disuse. Southey.
DISUTILIZE
To deprive of utility; to render useless. [R.] Mrs. Browning.
DISVALUATION
Disesteem; depreciation; disrepute. Bacon.
DISVALUE
To undervalue; to depreciate. Shak.
DISVANTAGEOUS
Disadvantageous. [Obs.] "Disadvantageous ground." Drayton.
DISVELOP
To develop. [Obs.]
DISVENTURE
A disadventure. [Obs.] Shelton.
DISVOUCH
To discredit; to contradict. [Obs.] Shak.
DISWARN
To dissuade from by previous warning. [Obs.]
DISWITTED
Deprived of wits or understanding; distracted. [Obs.] Drayton.
DISWONT
To deprive of wonted usage; to disaccustom. [R.] Bp. Hall.
DISWORKMANSHIP
Bad workmanship. [Obs.] Heywood.
DISWORSHIP
To refuse to worship; to treat as unworthy. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
DISWORTH
To deprive of worth; to degrade. [Obs.] Feltham.
DISYOKE
To unyoke; to free from a yoke; to disjoin. [Poetic] R.Browning.
DIT
To close up. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DITATION
The act of making rich; enrichment. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DITCH
To dig a ditch or ditches. Swift.
DITCHER
One who digs ditches.
DITE
To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight. [Obs.]His hideous club aloft he dites. Spenser.
DITEREBENE
See Colophene.
DITHEISM
The doctrine of those who maintain the existence of two gods orof two original principles (as in Manicheism), one good and one evil;dualism.
DITHEIST
One who holds the doctrine of ditheism; a dualist. Cudworth.
DITHIONIC
Containing two equivalents of sulphur; as, dithionic acid.Dithionic acid (Chem.), an unstable substance, H2S2O6, known only inits solutions, and in certain well-defined salts.
DITHYRAMB
A kind of lyric poetry in honor of Bacchus, usually sung by aband of revelers to a flute accompaniment; hence, in general, a poemwritten in a wild irregular strain. Bentley.
DITHYRAMBIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, a dithyramb; wild and boisterous."Dithyrambic sallies." Longfellow.-- n.
DITHYRAMBUS
See Dithyramb.
DITION
Dominion; rule. [Obs.] Evelyn.
DITIONARY
Under rule; subject; tributary. [Obs.] Chapman.
DITOLYL
A white, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C14H14, consistingof two radicals or residues of toluene.
DITONE
The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (themodern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone).
DITRICHOTOMOUS
Dividing into double or treble ramifications; -- said of a leafor stem. [R.] Loudon.
DITROCHEAN
Containing two trochees.
DITROCHEE
A double trochee; a foot made up of two trochees.
DITROITE
An igneous rock composed of orthoclase, elรฆolite, and sodalite.
DITT
See Dit, n.,
DITTANDER
A kind of peppergrass (Lepidium latifolium).
DITTIED
Set, sung, or composed as a ditty; -- usually in composition.Who, with his soft pipe, and smooth-dittied song. Milton.
DITTO
The aforesaid thing; the same (as before). Often contracted todo., or to two "turned commas" ("), or small marks. Used in bills,books of account, tables of names, etc., to save repetition.A spacious table in the center, and a variety of smaller dittos inthe corners. Dickens.
DITTOLOGY
A double reading, or twofold interpretation, as of a Scripturetext. [R.]
DITTY
To sing; to warble a little tune.Beasts fain would sing; birds ditty to their notes. Herbert.
DITTY-BAG
A sailor's small bag to hold thread, needles, tape, etc.; --also called sailor's housewife.
DITTY-BOX
A small box to hold a sailor's thread, needless, comb, etc.
DIUREIDE
One of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded ascontaining two molecules of urea or their radicals, as uric acid orallantoin. Cf. Ureide.
DIURESIS
Free excretion of urine.
DIURETIC
Tending to increase the secretion and discharge of urine.-- n.
DIURETICAL
Diuretic. [Obs.] Boyle.
DIURETICALNESS
The quality of being diuretical; diuretic property.
DIURNA
A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- socalled because they fly only in the daytime.
DIURNAL
Opening during the day, and closing at night; -- said offlowers or leaves.
DIURNALIST
A journalist. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DIURNALLY
Daily; every day.
DIURNALNESS
The quality of being diurnal.
DIURNATION
The condition of sleeping or becoming dormant by day, as is thecase of the bats.
DIUTURNAL
Of long continuance; lasting. [R.] Milton.
DIUTURNITY
Long duration; lastingness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
DIVA
A prima donna.
DIVAGATION
A wandering about or going astray; digression.Let us be set down at Queen's Crawley without further divagation.Thackeray.
DIVALENT
Having two units of combining power; bivalent. Cf. Valence.
DIVARICATE
To divide into two branches; to cause to branch apart.
DIVARICATELY
With divarication.
DIVARICATION
A divergence of lines of color sculpture, or of fibers atdifferent angles.
DIVARICATOR
One of the muscles which open the shell of brachiopods; acardinal muscle. See Illust. of Brachiopoda.
DIVAST
Devastated; laid waste. [Obs.]
DIVEDAPPER
A water fowl; the didapper. See Dabchick.
DIVEL
To rend apart. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
DIVELLENT
Drawing asunder. [R.]
DIVELLICATE
To pull in pieces. [Obs. or R.]
DIVER
Any bird of certain genera, as Urinator (formerly Colymbus), orthe allied genus Colymbus, or Podiceps, remarkable for their agilityin diving.
DIVERB
A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted;an antithetical proverb. [Obs.]Italy, a paradise for horses, a hell for women, as the diverb goes.Burton.
DIVERBERATE
To strike or sound through. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).
DIVERBERATION
A sounding through.
DIVERGEMENT
Divergence.
DIVERGENT
Causing divergence of rays; as, a divergent lens.
DIVERGING
Tending in different directions from a common center; spreadingapart; divergent. Diverging series (Math.), a series whose terms arelarger as the series is extended; a series the sum of whose termsdoes not approach a finite limit when the series is extendedindefinitely; -- opposed to a converging series.
DIVERGINGLY
In a diverging manner.
DIVERSE
In different directions; diversely.
DIVERSENESS
The quality of being diverse.
DIVERSIFIABILITY
The quality or capacity of being diversifiable. Earle.
DIVERSIFIABLE
Capable of being diversified or varied. Boyle.
DIVERSIFIED
Distinguished by various forms, or by a variety of aspects orobjects; variegated; as, diversified scenery or landscape.
DIVERSIFIER
One who, or that which, diversifies.
DIVERSIFORM
Of a different form; of varied forms.
DIVERSIFY
To make diverse or various in form or quality; to give varietyto; to variegate; to distinguish by numerous differences or aspects.Separated and diversified on from another. Locke.Its seven colors, that diversify all the face of nature. I. Taylor.
DIVERSILOQUENT
Speaking in different ways. [R.]
DIVERSION
The act of drawing the attention and force of an enemy from thepoint where the principal attack is to be made; the attack, alarm, orfeint which diverts.
DIVERSIVOLENT
Desiring different things. [Obs.] Webster (White Devil).
DIVERSORY
Serving or tending to divert; also, distinguishing. [Obs.]
DIVERT
To turn aside; to digress. [Obs.]I diverted to see one of the prince's palaces. Evelyn.
DIVERTER
One who, or that which, diverts, turns off, or pleases.
DIVERTIBLE
Capable of being diverted.
DIVERTICLE
A diverticulum.
DIVERTICULAR
Pertaining to a diverticulum.
DIVERTICULUM
A blind tube branching out of a longer one.
DIVERTIMENTO
) A light and pleasing composition.
DIVERTING
Amusing; entertaining.-- Di*vert"ing*ly, adv.-- Di*vert"ing*ness, n.
DIVERTISE
To divert; to entertain. [Obs.] Dryden.
DIVERTISEMENT
Diversion; amusement; recreation. [R.]
DIVERTISSEMENT
A short ballet, or other entertainment, between the acts of aplay. Smart.
DIVERTIVE
Tending to divert; diverting; amusing; interesting.Things of a pleasant and divertive nature. Rogers.
DIVES
The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parableof the "Rich Man and Lazarus" (Luke xvi. 19-31). Hence, a name for arich worldling.
DIVEST
See Devest. Mozley & W.
DIVESTIBLE
Capable of being divested.
DIVESTITURE
The act of stripping, or depriving; the state of beingdivested; the deprivation, or surrender, of possession of property,rights, etc.
DIVESTMENT
The act of divesting. [R.]
DIVESTURE
Divestiture. [Obs.]
DIVET
See Divot.
DIVI-DIVI
A small tree of tropical America (Cรฆsalpinia coriaria), whoselegumes contain a large proportion of tannic and gallic acid, and areused by tanners and dyers.
DIVIDANT
Different; distinct. [Obs.] Shak.
DIVIDE
To subject to arithmetical division.
DIVIDED
Cut into distinct parts, by incisions which reach the midrib; -- said of a leaf.
DIVIDEDLY
Separately; in a divided manner.
DIVIDEND
A number or quantity which is to be divided.
DIVIDENT
Dividend; share. [Obs.] Foxe.
DIVIDER
An instrument for dividing lines, describing circles, etc.,compasses. See Compasses.
DIVIDING
That divides; separating; marking divisions; graduating.Dividing engine, a machine for graduating circles (as forastronomical instruments) or bars (as for scales); also, for spacingoff and cutting teeth in wheels.-- Dividing sinker. (Knitting Mach.). See under Sinker.
DIVIDINGLY
By division.
DIVIDUAL
Divided, shared, or participated in, in common with others.[R.] Milton.
DIVIDUALLY
By dividing. [R.]
DIVIDUOUS
Divided; dividual. [R.]He so often substantiates distinctions into dividuous,selfsubsistent. Coleridge.
DIVINATOR
One who practices or pretends to divination; a diviner. [R.]Burton.
DIVINATORY
Professing, or relating to, divination. "A natural divinatoryinstinct." Cowley.
DIVINEMENT
Divination. [Obs.]
DIVINENESS
The quality of being divine; superhuman or supreme excellence.Shak.
DIVINERESS
A woman who divines. Dryden.
DIVING
That dives or is used or diving. Diving beetle (Zoรถl.), anybeetle of the family Dytiscidรฆ, which habitually lives under water; -- called also water tiger.-- Diving bell, a hollow inverted vessel, sometimes bell-shaped, inwhich men may descend and work under water, respiration beingsustained by the compressed air at the top, by fresh air pumped inthrough a tube from above.-- Diving dress. See Submarine armor, under Submarine.-- Diving stone, a kind of jasper.
DIVINIFY
To render divine; to deify. [Obs.] "Blessed and divinifiedsoul." Parth. Sacra (1633).
DIVINING
That divines; for divining. Divining rod, a rod, commonly ofwitch hazel, with forked branches, used by those who pretend todiscover water or metals under ground.
DIVININGLY
In a divining manner.
DIVINISTRE
A diviner. [Obs.] " I am no divinistre." Chaucer.
DIVINITY CALF
Calf stained dark brown and worked without gilding, often usedfor theological books.
DIVINIZATION
A making divine. M. Arnold.
DIVINIZE
To invest with a divine character; to deify. [R.] M. Arnold.Man had divinized all those objects of awe. Milman.
DIVISIBILITY
The quality of being divisible; the property of bodies by whichtheir parts are capable of separation.Divisibility . . . is a primary attribute of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.
DIVISIBLE
Capable of being divided or separated.Extended substance . . . is divisible into parts. Sir W. Hamilton.Divisible contract (Law), a contract containing agreements one ofwhich can be separated from the other.-- Divisible offense (Law), an offense containing a lesser offensein one of a greater grade, so that on the latter there can be anacquittal, while on the former there can be a conviction.-- Di*vis"i*ble*ness, n.-- Di*vis"i*bly, adv.
DIVISION
The process of finding how many times one number or quantity iscontained in another; the reverse of multiplication; also, the ruleby which the operation is performed.
DIVISIONAL
That divides; pas, a divisional line; a divisional general; adivisional surgeon of police. Divisional planes (Geol.), planes ofseparation between rock masses. They include joints.
DIVISIONALLY
So as to be divisional.
DIVISIONARY
Divisional.
DIVISIONOR
One who divides or makes division. [Obs.] Sheldon.
DIVISOR
The number by which the dividend is divided. Common divisor.(Math.) See under Common, a.
DIVORCEABLE
Capable of being divorced.
DIVORCEE
A person divorced.
DIVORCELESS
Incapable of being divorced or separated; free from divorce.
DIVORCEMENT
Dissolution of the marriage tie; divorce; separation.Let him write her a divorcement. Deut. xxiv. 1.The divorcement of our written from our spoken language. R. Morris.
DIVORCER
The person or cause that produces or effects a divorce.Drummond.
DIVORCIBLE
Divorceable. Milton.
DIVORCIVE
Having power to divorce; tending to divorce. "This divorcivelaw." Milton.
DIVOT
A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also forfuel. [Scot.] Simmonds.
DIVULGATE
Published. [Obs.] Bale.
DIVULGATER
A divulger. [R.]
DIVULGATION
The act of divulging or publishing. [R.]Secrecy hath no use than divulgation. Bp. Hall.
DIVULGE
To become publicly known. [R.] "To keep it from divulging."Shak.
DIVULSIVE
Tending to pull asunder, tear, or rend; distracting.
DIXIE
A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the UnitedStates, esp. during the Civil War. [U.S.]
DIZZ
To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle. [Obs.] Gayton.
DIZZARD
A blockhead. [Obs.] [Written also dizard, and disard.] --Diz"zard*ly, adv. [Obs.]
DIZZILY
In a dizzy manner or state.
DIZZINESS
Giddiness; a whirling sensation in the head; vertigo.
DIZZY
To make dizzy or giddy; to give the vertigo to; to confuse.If the jangling of thy bells had not dizzied thy understanding. SirW. Scott.
DJINNEE
See Jinnee, Jinn.
DO
A syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonicscale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio. It is the firstof the seven syllables used by the Italians as manes of musicaltones, and replaced, for the sake of euphony, the syllable Ut,applied to the note C. In England and America the same syllables areused by mane as a scale pattern, while the tones in respect toabsolute pitch are named from the first seven letters of thealphabet.
DO-ALL
General manager; factotum.Under him, Dunstan was the do-all at court, being the king'streasurer, councilor, chancellor, confessor, all things. Fuller.
DO-LITTLE
One who performs little though professing much. [Colloq.]Great talkers are commonly dolittles. Bp. Richardson.
DO-NAUGHT
A lazy, good-for-nothing fellow.
DO-NOTHING
Doing nothing; inactive; idle; lazy; as, a do-nothing policy.
DOAB
A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, thedoab between the Ganges and the Jumna. [India] Am. Cyc.
DOABLE
Capable of being done. Carlyle.
DOAND
Doing. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
DOAT
See Dote.
DOBBER
See Dabchick.
DOBBY
An apparatus resembling a Jacquard for weaving small figures(usually about 12 - 16 threads, seldom more than 36 - 40 threads).
DOBCHICK
See Dabchick.
DOBSON
The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydaluscornutus), used as bait in angling. See Hellgamite.
DOBULE
The European dace.
DOCENT
Serving to instruct; teaching. [Obs.]
DOCETAE
Ancient heretics who held that Christ's body was merely aphantom or appearance.
DOCETIC
Pertaining to, held by, or like, the Docetรฆ. "DoceticGnosticism." Plumptre.
DOCETISM
The doctrine of the Docetรฆ.
DOCHMIAC
Pertaining to, or containing, the dochmius.
DOCHMIUS
A foot of five syllables (usually
DOCIBLE
Easily taught or managed; teachable. Milton.
DOCIMACY
The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature,quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or offacts pertaining to physiology.
DOCIMASTIC
Proving by experiments or tests. Docimastic art, metallurgy, orthe art of assaying metals; the art of separating metals from foreignmatters, and determining the nature and quantity of metallicsubstances contained in any ore or mineral.
DOCIMOLOGY
A treatise on the art of testing, as in assaying metals, etc.
DOCITY
Teachableness. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.]
DOCK
A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-knownweeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination.
DOCK-CRESS
Nipplewort.
DOCKAGE
A charge for the use of a dock.
DOCKYARD
A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores andtimber for shipbuilding.
DOCOGLOSSA
An order of gastropods, including the true limpets, and havingthe teeth on the odontophore or lingual ribbon.
DOCQUET
See Docket.
DOCTOR
The friar skate. [Prov. Eng.] Doctors' Commons. See underCommons.-- Doctor's stuff, physic, medicine. G. Eliot.-- Doctor fish (Zoรถl.), any fish of the genus Acanthurus; thesurgeon fish; -- so called from a sharp lancetlike spine on each sideof the tail. Also called barber fish. See Surgeon fish.
DOCTORAL
Of or relating to a doctor, or to the degree of doctor.Doctoral habit and square cap. Wood.
DOCTORALLY
In the manner of a doctor.[R.]
DOCTORATE
The degree, title, or rank, of a doctor.
DOCTORESS
A female doctor.[R.]
DOCTORLY
Like a doctor or learned man. [Obs.] "Doctorly prelates." Foxe.
DOCTORSHIP
Doctorate. [R.] Clarendon.
DOCTRESS
A female doctor. [R.]
DOCTRINABLE
Of the nature of, or constituting, doctrine. [Obs.] Sir P.Sidney.
DOCTRINAIRE
One who would apply to political or other practical concernsthe abstract doctrines or the theories of his own philosophicalsystem; a propounder of a new set of opinions; a dogmatic theorist.Used also adjectively; as, doctrinaire notions.
DOCTRINAL
A matter of doctrine; also, a system of doctrines. T. Goodwin.Sir T. Elyot.
DOCTRINALLY
In a doctrinal manner or for; by way of teaching or positivedirection.
DOCTRINARIAN
A doctrinaire. J. H. Newman.
DOCTRINARIANISM
The principles or practices of the Doctrinaires.
DOCUMENTARY
Pertaining to written evidence; contained or certified inwriting. "Documentary evidence." Macaulay.
DODDART
A game much like hockey, played in an open field; also, the,bent stick for playing the game. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell.
DODDED
Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, doddedcorn. Halliwell.
DODDER
A plant of the genus Cuscuta. It is a leafless parasitical vinewith yellowish threadlike stems. It attaches itself to some otherplant, as to flax, goldenrod, etc., and decaying at the root. isnourished by the plant that supports it.
DODDERED
Shattered; infirm. "A laurel grew, doddered with age." Dryden.
DODECAGON
A figure or polygon bounded by twelve sides and containingtwelve angles.
DODECAGYNIA
A Linnรฆan order of plants having twelve styles.
DODECAHEDRAL
Pertaining to, or like, a dodecahedion; consisting of twelveequal sides. Dodecahedral cleavage. See under Cleavage.
DODECAHEDRON
A solid having twelve faces.
DODECANDRIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants including all that have any number ofstamens between twelve and nineteen.
DODECANE
Any one of a group of thick oily hydrocarbons, C12H26, of theparaffin series.
DODECASTYLE
Having twelve columns in front.-- n.
DODECASYLLABIC
Having twelve syllables.
DODECASYLLABLE
A word consisting of twelve syllables.
DODECATEMORY
A tern applied to the twelve houses, or parts, of the zodiac ofthe primum mobile, to distinguish them from the twelve signs; also,any one of the twelve signs of the zodiac.
DODGE
The act of evading by some skillful movement; a sudden startingaside; hence, an artful device to evade, deceive, or cheat; a cunningtrick; an artifice. [Colloq.]Some, who have a taste for good living, have many harmless arts, bywhich they improve their banquet, and innocent dodges, if we may bepermitted to use an excellent phrase that has become vernacular sincethe appearance of the last dictionaries. Thackeray.
DODGERY
trickery; artifice. [Obs.] Hacket.
DODKIN
A doit; a small coin. Shelton.
DODMAN
Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster. [Prov. Eng.]
DODO
A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus), formerly inhabiting theIsland of Mauritius. It had short, half-fledged wings, like those ofthe ostrich, and a short neck and legs; -- called also dronte. It wasrelated to the pigeons.
DOE
A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of thefallow deer, of which the male is called a buck. Also applied to thefemale of other animals, as the rabbit. See the Note under Buck.
DOEGLIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the doegling; as, doeglic acid(Chem.), an oily substance resembling oleic acid.
DOEGLING
The beaked whale (Balรฆnoptera rostrata), from which doeglingoil is obtained.
DOER
An agent or attorney; a factor. Burrill.
DOES
The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do.
DOFF
To put off dress; to take off the hat.
DOFFER
A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in acarding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from thecards. Ure.
DOG
A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C.familiaris).
DOG BEE
A male or drone bee. Halliwell.
DOG DAYS
A period of from four to six weeks, in the summer, variouslyplaced by almanac makers between the early part of July and the earlypart of September; canicular days; -- so called in reference to therising in ancient times of the Dog Star (Sirius) with the sun.Popularly, the sultry, close part of the summer.
DOG FANCIER
One who has an unusual fancy for, or interest in, dogs; also,one who deals in dogs.
DOG STAR
Sirius, a star of the constellation Canis Major, or the GreaterDog, and the brightest star in the heavens; -- called also Canicula,and, in astronomical charts, a Canis Majoris. See Dog days.
DOG-BRIER
The dog-rose.
DOG-EARED
Having the corners of the leaves turned down and soiled bycareless or long-continued usage; -- said of a book.Statute books before unopened, not dog-eared. Ld. Mansfield.
DOG-FACED
Having a face resembling that of a dog. Dog-faced baboon(Zoรถl.), any baboon of the genus Cynocephalus. See Drill.
DOG-HEADED
Having a head shaped like that of a dog; -- said of certainbaboons.
DOG-HEARTED
Inhuman; cruel. Shak.
DOG-LEGGED
Noting a flight of stairs, consisting of two or more straightportions connected by a platform (landing) or platforms, and runningin opposite directions without an intervening wellhole.
DOG-ROSE
A common European wild rose, with single pink or white flowers.
DOG-WEARY
Extremely weary. Shak.
DOGAL
Of or pertaining to a doge.[R.]
DOGATE
The office or dignity of a doge.
DOGBANE
A small genus of perennial herbaceous plants, with poisonousmilky juice, bearing slender pods pods in pairs.
DOGBERRY
The berry of the dogwood; -- called also dogcherry. Dr. Prior.Dogberry tree (Bot.), the dogwood.
DOGBOLT
The bolt of the cap-square over the trunnion of a cannon.Knight.
DOGCART
A light one-horse carriage, commonly two-wheeled, patternedafter a cart. The original dogcarts used in England by sportsmen hada box at the back for carrying dogs.
DOGDRAW
The act of drawing after, or pursuing, deer with a dog. Cowell.
DOGE
The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa.
DOGEATE
Dogate. Wright.
DOGELESS
Without a doge. Byron.
DOGGEDLY
In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution.
DOGGER
A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch.
DOGGEREL
Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes.This may well be rhyme doggerel, quod he. Chaucer.
DOGGERMAN
A sailor belonging to a dogger.
DOGGET
Docket. See Docket. [Obs.]
DOGGISH
Like a dog; having the bad qualities of a dog; churlish;growling; brutal.-- Dog"*gish*ly, adv.-- Dog"gish*ness, n.
DOGGREL
Same as Doggerel.
DOGHOLE
A place fit only for dogs; a vile, mean habitation orapartment. Dryden.
DOGMATIC
One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by generalprinciples; -- opposed to the Empiric.
DOGMATICALLY
In a dogmatic manner; positively; magisterially.
DOGMATICALNESS
The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness.
DOGMATICIAN
A dogmatist.
DOGMATICS
The science which treats of Christian doctrinal theology.
DOGMATISM
The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance orpositiveness in stating opinion.The self-importance of his demeanor, and the dogmatism of hisconversation. Sir W. Scott.
DOGMATIST
One who dogmatizes; one who speaks dogmatically; a bold andarrogant advancer of principles.I expect but little success of all this upon the dogmatist; hisopinioned assurance is paramount to argument. Glanvill.
DOGMATIZE
To assert positively; to teach magisterially or with bold andundue confidence; to advance with arrogance.The pride of dogmatizing schools. Blackmore.
DOGMATIZER
One who dogmatizes; a bold asserter; a magisterial teacher.Hammond.
DOGSHIP
The character, or individuality, of a dog.
DOGSHORE
One of several shores used to hold a ship firmly and preventher moving while the blocks are knocked away before launching.
DOGSICK
Sick as a dog sometimes is very sick. [Colloq.]
DOGSKIN
The skin of a dog, or leather made of the skin. Also usedadjectively.
DOGSLEEP
The fitful naps taken when all hands are kept up by stress.
DOGTIE
A cramp.
DOGTOOTH
An ornament common in Gothic architecture, consisting ofpointed projections resembling teeth; -- also called tooth ornament.Dogtooth spar (Min.), a variety of calcite, in acute crystals,resembling the tooth of a dog. See Calcite.-- Dogtooth violet (Bot.), a small, bulbous herb of the Lily family(genus Erythronium). It has two shining flat leaves and commonly onelarge flower. [Written also dog's-tooth violet.]
DOGTRICK
A gentle trot, like that of a dog.
DOGVANE
A small vane of bunting, feathers, or any other light material,carried at the masthead to indicate the direction of the wind.Totten.
DOGWATCH
A half watch; a watch of two hours, of which there are two, thefirst dogwatch from 4 to 6 o'clock, p.m., and the second dogwatchfrom 6 to 8 o'clock, P. M. Totten.
DOGWOOD
The Cornus, a genus of large shrubs or small trees, the wood ofwhich is exceedingly hard, and serviceable for many purposes.
DOHTREN
Daughters. [Obs.]
DOING
Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in theplural, conduct; behavior. See Do.To render an account of his doings. Barrow.
DOITKIN
A very small coin; a doit.
DOKIMASTIC
Docimastic.
DOKO
See Lepidosiren.
DOLABRA
A rude ancient ax or hatchet, seen in museums.
DOLABRIFORM
Shaped like the head of an ax or hatchet, as some leaves, andalso certain organs of some shellfish.
DOLDRUMS
A part of the ocean near the equator, abounding in calms,squalls, and light, baffling winds, which sometimes prevent allprogress for weeks; -- so called by sailors. To be in the doldrums,to be in a state of listlessness ennui, or tedium.
DOLE
grief; sorrow; lamentation. [Archaic]And she died. So that day there was dole in Astolat. Tennyson.
DOLEFUL
Full of dole or grief; expressing or exciting sorrow;sorrowful; sad; dismal.With screwed face and doleful whine. South.Regions of sorrow, doleful shades. Milton.
DOLENT
Sorrowful. [Obs.] Ford.
DOLENTE
Plaintively. See Doloroso.
DOLERITE
A dark-colored, basic, igneous rock, composed essentially ofpyroxene and a triclinic feldspar with magnetic iron. By many authorsit is considered equivalent to a coarse-grained basalt.
DOLERITIC
Of the nature of dolerite; as, much lava is doleritic lava.Dana.
DOLESOME
Doleful; dismal; gloomy; sorrowful.-- Dole"some*ly, adv.-- Dole"some*ness, n.
DOLF
of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DOLIOFORM
Barrel-shaped, or like a cask in form.
DOLIOLUM
A genus of freeswimming oceanic tunicates, allied to Salpa, andhaving alternate generations.
DOLIUM
A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridgeshell and tun shells.
DOLL
A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl.
DOLLARDEE
A species of sunfish (Lepomis pallidus), common in the UnitedStates; -- called also blue sunfish, and copper-nosed bream.
DOLLMAN
See Dolman.
DOLLY
A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch,and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer.
DOLMEN
A cromlech. See Cromlech. [Written also tolmen.]
DOLOMITE
A mineral consisting of the carbonate of lime and magnesia invarying proportions. It occurs in distinct crystals, and in extensivebeds as a compact limestone, often crystalline granular, either whiteor clouded. It includes much of the common white marble. Also calledbitter spar.
DOLOMITIC
Pertaining to dolomite.
DOLOMIZE
To convert into dolomite.-- Dol`o*mi*za"tion, n.
DOLOR
Pain; grief; distress; anguish. [Written also dolour.] [Poetic]Of death and dolor telling sad tidings. Spenser.
DOLORIFEROUS
Producing pain. Whitaker.
DOLOROSO
Plaintive; pathetic; -- used adverbially as a musicaldirection.
DOLPHIN
A mass of iron or lead hung from the yardarm, in readiness tobe dropped on the deck of an enemy's vessel.
DOLPHINET
A female dolphin. [R.] Spenser.
DOLT
A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus;a dunce; a dullard.This Puck seems but a dreaming dolt. Drayton.
DOLTISH
Doltlike; dull in intellect; stupid; blockish; as, a doltishclown.-- Dolt"ish*ly, adv.-- Dolt"ish*ness, n.
DOLUS
Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa.Wharton.
DOLVEN
of Delve. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
DOMABLE
Capable of being tamed; tamable.
DOMABLENESS
Tamableness.
DOMAIN
Ownership of land; an estate or patrimony which one has in hisown right; absolute proprietorship; paramount or sovereign ownership.Public domain, the territory belonging to a State or to the generalgovernment; public lands. [U.S.]in the public domain may be used byanyone wihout restriction.-- Right of eminent domain, that superior dominion of the sovereignpower over all the property within the state, including thatpreviously granted by itself, which authorizes it to appropriate anypart thereof to a necessary public use, reasonable compensation beingmade.
DOMAL
Pertaining to a house. Addison.
DOMANIAL
Of or relating to a domain or to domains.
DOME
A cupola formed on a large scale.
DOMEBOOK
A book said to have been compiled under the direction of KingAlfred. It is supposed to have contained the principal maxims of thecommon law, the penalties for misdemeanors, and the forms of judicialproceedings. Domebook was probably a general name for book ofjudgments. Burrill.
DOMED
Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome.
DOMESDAY
A day of judgment. See Doomsday. [Obs.] Domesday Book, theancient record of the survey of most of the lands of England, made byorder of William the Conqueror, about 1086. It consists of twovolumes, a large folio and a quarto, and gives the proprietors'tenures, arable land, woodland, etc. [Written also Doomsday Book.]
DOMESMAN
A judge; an umpire. [Obs.]
DOMESTIC
Articles of home manufacture, especially cotton goods. [U. S.]
DOMESTICAL
Domestic. [Obs.]Our private and domestical matter. Sir. P. Sidney.
DOMESTICALLY
In a domestic manner; privately; with reference to domesticaffairs.
DOMESTICANT
Forming part of the same family. [Obs.] Sir E. Dering.
DOMESTICATION
The act of domesticating, or accustoming to home; the action oftaming wild animals.
DOMESTICATOR
One who domesticates.
DOMESTICITY
The state of being domestic; domestic character; householdlife.
DOMETT
A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weftwoolen. Blakely.
DOMEYKITE
A massive mineral of tin-white or steel-gray color, an arsenideof copper.
DOMICAL
Relating to, or shaped like, a dome.
DOMICILE
A residence at a particular place accompanied with an intentionto remain there for an unlimited time; a residence accepted as afinal abode. Wharton.
DOMICILIAR
A member of a household; a domestic.
DOMICILIARY
Of or pertaining to a domicile, or the residence of a person orfamily.The personal and domiciliary rights of the citizen scrupulouslyguarded. Motley.Domiciliary visit (Law), a visit to a private dwelling, particularlyfor searching it, under authority.
DOMICILIATION
The act of domiciliating; permanent residence; inhabitancy.Milman.
DOMICULTURE
The art of house-keeping, cookery, etc. [R.] R. Park.
DOMIFY
To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, inastrological sense. [Obs.]
DOMINA
Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies whoheld a barony in their own right. Burrill.
DOMINANT
Ruling; governing; prevailing; controlling; predominant; as,the dominant party, church, spirit, power.The member of a dominant race is, in his dealings with the subjectrace, seldom indeed fraudulent, . . . but imperious, insolent, andcruel. Macaulay.Dominant estate or tenement (Law), the estate to which a servitude oreasement is due from another estate, the estate over which theservitude extends being called the servient estate or tenement.Bouvier. Wharton's Law Dict.-- Dominant owner (Law), one who owns lands on which there is aneasement owned by another.
DOMINATE
To predominate over; to rule; to govern. "A city dominated bythe ax." Dickens.We everywhere meet with Slavonian nations either dominant ordominated. W. Tooke.
DOMINATION
A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaninggiven by the schoolmen.Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, powers. Milton.
DOMINATIVE
Governing; ruling; imperious. Sir E. Sandys.
DOMINATOR
A ruler or ruling power. "Sole dominator of Navarre." Shak.Jupiter and Mars are dominators for this northwest part of the world.Camden.
DOMINE
A West Indian fish (Epinula magistralis), of the familyTrichiuridรฆ. It is a long-bodied, voracious fish.
DOMINEER
To rule with insolence or arbitrary sway; to play the master;to be overbearing; to tyrannize; to bluster; to swell with conscioussuperiority or haughtiness; -- often with over; as, to domineer overdependents.Go to the feast, revel and domineer. Shak.His wishes tend abroad to roam, And hers to domineer at home. Prior.
DOMINEERING
Ruling arrogantly; overbearing.A violent, brutal, domineering old reprobate. Blackw. Mag.
DOMINICAL
The Lord's day or Sunday; also, the Lord's prayer. [Obs.]
DOMINICAN
Of or pertaining to St. Dominic (Dominic de Guzman), or to thereligions communities named from him. Dominican nuns, an order ofnuns founded by St. Dominic, and chiefly employed in teaching.-- Dominican tertiaries (the third order of St. Dominic). SeeTertiary.
DOMINION
A supposed high order of angels; dominations. See Domination,3. Milton.By him were all things created . . . whether they be thrones, ordominions, or principalities, or powers. Col. i. 16.
DOMINION DAY
In Canada, a legal holiday, July lst, being the anniversary ofthe proclamation of the formation of the Dominion in 1867.
DOMINO
A game played by two or more persons, with twenty-eight piecesof wood, bone, or ivory, of a flat, oblong shape, plain at the back,but on the face divided by a line in the middle, and either leftblank or variously dotted after the manner of dice. The game isplayed by matching the spots or the blank of an unmatched half of adomino already played Hoyle.
DOMINO WHIST
A game of cards in which the suits are played in sequence,beginning with a 5 or 9, the player who gets rid of his cards firstbeing the winner.
DOMINUS
Master; sir; -- a title of respect formerly applied to a knightor a clergyman, and sometimes to the lord of a manor. Cowell.
DOMITABLE
That can be tamed. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
DOMITE
A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de-Dรดme in Auvergne, France, where it is found.
DON
To put on; to dress in; to invest one's self with.Should I don this robe and trouble you. Shak.At night, or in the rain, He dons a surcoat which he doffs at morn.Emerson.
DONABLE
Capable of being donated or given. [R.]
DONARY
A thing given to a sacred use. [R.] Burton.
DONAT
A grammar. [Obs.] [Written also donet.]
DONATARY
See Donatory.
DONATE
To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousanddollars to a college.
DONATION
The act or contract by which a person voluntarily transfers thetitle to a thing of which be is the owner, from himself to another,without any consideration, as a free gift. Bouvier. Donation party, aparty assembled at the house of some one, as of a clergyman, each onebringing some present. [U.S.] Bartlett.
DONATISM
The tenets of the Donatists.
DONATIST
A follower of Donatus, the leader of a body of North Africanschismatics and purists, who greatly disturbed the church in the 4thcentury. They claimed to be the true church.
DONATISTIC
Pertaining to Donatism.
DONATIVE
A benefice conferred on a person by the founder or patron,without either presentation or institution by the ordinary, orinduction by his orders. See the Note under Benefice, n.,
DONATOR
One who makes a gift; a donor; a giver.
DONATORY
A donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition,escheated property is made over.
DONAX
A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax), used forfishing rods, etc.
DONCELLA
A handsome fish of Florida and the West Indies (Platyglossusradiatus). The name is applied also to the ladyfish (Harpe rufa) ofthe same region.
DONE
p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive.
DONEE
Anciently, one to whom lands were given; in later use, one towhom lands and tenements are given in tail; in modern use, one onwhom a power is conferred for execution; -- sometimes called theappointor.
DONET
Same as Donat. Piers Plowman.
DONI
A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used fortrading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon. [Writtenalso dhony, doney, and done.]
DONIFEROUS
Bearing gifts. [R.]
DONJON
The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower inancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications.See Illust. of Castle.
DONNA
A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy.
DONNAT
See Do-naught. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
DONNEE
Lit., given; hence, in a literary work, as a drama or tale,that which is assumed as to characters, situation, etc., as a basisfor the plot or story.  W. E. Henley.
DONNISM
Self-importance; loftiness of carriage. [Cant, Eng.Universities]
DONOR
One who grants an estate; in later use, one who confers apower; -- the opposite of donee. Kent.Touching, the parties unto deeds and charters, we are to consider aswell the donors and granters as the donees or grantees. Spelman.
DONSHIP
The quality or rank of a don, gentleman, or knight. Hudibras.
DONZEL
A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page. [Obs.] Beau. &Fl.
DOO
A dove. [Scot.]
DOOB GRASS
A perennial, creeping grass (Cynodon dactylon), highly prized,in Hindostan, as food for cattle, and acclimated in the UnitedStates. [Written also doub grass.]
DOODLE
A trifler; a simple fellow.
DOODLESACK
The Scotch bagpipe. [Prov. Eng.]
DOOLE
Sorrow; dole. [Obs.] Spenser.
DOOLY
A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carryingpersons or things; a palanquin. [Written also doolee and doolie.][East Indies]Having provided doolies, or little bamboo chairs slung on four men'sshoulders, in which I put my papers and boxes, we next morningcommenced the ascent. J. D. Hooker.
DOOM PALM
A species of palm tree (Hyphรฆne Thebaica), highly valued forthe fibrous pulp of its fruit, which has the flavor of gingerbread,and is largely eaten in Egypt and Abyssinia. [Written also doumpalm.]
DOOMAGE
A penalty or fine for neglect. [Local, New England]
DOOMFUL
Full of condemnation or destructive power. [R.] "That doomfuldeluge." Drayton.
DOOMSMAN
A judge; an umpire. [Obs.] Hampole.
DOOMSTER
Same as Dempster. [Scot.]
DOORCASE
The surrounding frame into which a door shuts.
DOORCHEEK
The jamb or sidepiece of a door. Ex. xii. 22 (Douay version).
DOORGA
A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with tenarms. [Written also Durga.] Malcom.
DOORING
The frame of a door. Milton.
DOORKEEPER
One who guards the entrance of a house or apartment; a porter;a janitor.
DOORLESS
Without a door.
DOORNAIL
The nail or knob on which in ancient doors the knocker struck;-- hence the old saying, "As dead as a doornail."
DOORPLANE
A plane on a door, giving the name, and sometimes theemployment, of the occupant.
DOORPOST
The jamb or sidepiece of a doorway.
DOORSILL
The sill or threshold of a door.
DOORSTEAD
Entrance or place of a door. [Obs. or Local] Bp. Warburton.
DOORSTEP
The stone or plank forming a step before an outer door.
DOORSTONE
The stone forming a threshold.
DOORSTOP
The block or strip of wood or similar material which stops, atthe right place, the shutting of a door.
DOORWAY
The passage of a door; entrance way into a house or a room.
DOORYARD
A yard in front of a house or around the door of a house.
DOP
To dip. [Obs.] Walton.
DOPE-BOOK
A chart of previous performances, etc., of race horses. [Race-track Slang]
DOPEY
Affected by "dope"; esp., sluggish or dull as though under theinfluence of a narcotic. [Slang]
DOPPELGANGER
A spiritual or ghostly double or counterpart; esp., anapparitional double of a living person; a cowalker.
DOPPER
An Anabaptist or Baptist. [Contemptuous] B. Jonson.
DOPPLERITE
A brownish black native hydrocarbon occurring in elastic orjellylike masses.
DOQUET
A warrant. See Docket.
DOR
A large European scaraboid beetle (Geotrupes stercorarius),which makes a droning noise while flying. The name is also applied toallied American species, as the June bug. Called also dorr,dorbeetle, or dorrbeetle, dorbug, dorrfly, and buzzard clock.
DORADO
A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of theecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish.
DORBEETLE
See 1st Dor.
DOREE
A European marine fish (Zeus faber), of a yellow color. SeeIllust. of John Doree.
DORETREE
A doorpost. [Obs.] "As dead as a doretree." Piers Plowman.
DORHAWK
The European goatsucker; -- so called because it eats the dorbeetle. See Goatsucker. [Written also dorrhawk.] Booth.
DORIAN
Same as Doric, 3. "Dorian mood." Milton. Dorian mode (Mus.),the first of the authentic church modes or tones, from D to D,resembling our D minor scale, but with the B natural. Grove.
DORIC
Belonging to, or resembling, the oldest and simplest of thethree orders of architecture used by the Greeks, but ranked as secondof the five orders adopted by the Romans. See Abacus, Capital, Order.
DORICISM
A Doric phrase or idiom.
DORIS
A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchiยฏn the back.
DORISM
A Doric phrase or idiom.
DORKING FOWL
One of a breed of large-bodied domestic fowls, having fivetoes, or the hind toe double. There are several strains, as thewhite, gray, and silver-gray. They are highly esteemed for the table.
DORMANCY
The state of being dormant; quiescence; abeyance.
DORMANT
In a sleeping posture; as, a lion dormant; -- distinguishedfrom couchant. Dormant partner (Com.), a partner who takes no sharein the active business of a company or partnership, but is entitledto a share of the profits, and subject to a share in losses; --called also sleeping or silent partner.-- Dormant window (Arch.), a dormer window. See Dormer.-- Table dormant, a stationary table. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DORMITIVE
Causing sleep; as, the dormitive properties of opium. Clarke.-- n. (Med.)
DORMOUSE
A small European rodent of the genus Myoxus, of severalspecies. They live in trees and feed on nuts, acorns, etc.; -- socalled because they are usually torpid in winter.
DORMY
Up, or ahead, as many holes as remain to be played; -- said ofa player or side.
DORN
A British ray; the thornback.
DORP
A hamlet. "A mean fishing dorp." Howell.
DORR
The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor. Robynson(More's Utopia).
DORRFLY
See 1st Dor.
DORRHAWK
See Dorhawk.
DORSAD
Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally.
DORSAL
Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of ananimal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsalfin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed toventral.
DORSALE
Same as Dorsal, n.
DORSALLY
On, or toward, the dorsum, or back; on the dorsal side of;dorsad.
DORSE
The Baltic or variable cod (Gadus callarias), by some believedto be the young of the common codfish.
DORSER
See Dosser.
DORSIBRANCHIATA
A division of chรฆtopod annelids in which the branchiรฆ are alongthe back, on each side, or on the parapodia. [See Illusts. underAnnelida and Chรฆtopoda.]
DORSIBRANCHIATE
Having branchiรฆ along the back; belonging to theDorsibranchiata.-- n.
DORSIFEROUS
Bearing, or producing, on the back; -- applied to ferns whichproduce seeds on the back of the leaf, and to certain Batrachia, theova of which become attached to the skin of the back of the parent,where they develop; dorsiparous.
DORSIMESON
(Anat.) See Meson.
DORSIPAROUS
Same as Dorsiferous.
DORSIVENTRAL
Having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most commonleaves. The leaves of the iris are not dorsiventral.
DORSOVENTRAL
From the dorsal to the ventral side of an animal; as, thedorsoventral axis.
DORSUM
The back or dorsal region of an animal; the upper side of anappendage or part; as, the dorsum of the tongue.
DORY
A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree.
DORYPHORA
A genus of plant-eating beetles, including the potato beetle.See Potato beetle.
DORYPHOROS
A spear bearer; a statue of a man holding a spear or in theattitude of a spear bearer. Several important sculptures of thissubject existed in antiquity, copies of which remain to us.
DOS--DOS
Back to back; as, to sit dos-ร -dos in a dogcart; to dance dos-ร -dos, or so that two dancers move forward and pass back to back.
DOSAGE
The administration of medicine in doses; specif., a scheme orsystem of grading doses of medicine according to age, etc.
DOSEL
Same as Dorsal, n. [R.]
DOSIMETRY
Measurement of doses; specif., a system of therapeutics whichuses but few remedies, mostly alkaloids, and gives them in dosesfixed by certain rules. --Do`si*met"ric (#), a. --Do*sim"e*trist (#),n.
DOSOLOGY
Posology. [R.] Ogilvie.
DOSS
A place to sleep in; a bed; hence, sleep. [Slang]
DOSS HOUSE
A cheap lodging house.
DOSSEL
Same as Dorsal, n.
DOSSIER
A bundle containing the papers in reference to some matter.
DOSSIL
A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, forkeeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent.
DOST
of Do.
DOT
A marriage portion; dowry. [Louisiana]
DOTAL
Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion;constituting dower, or comprised in it. Garth.
DOTANT
A dotard. [Obs.] Shak.
DOTARD
One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood.The sickly dotard wants a wife. Prior.
DOTARDLY
Foolish; weak. Dr. H. More.
DOTARY
A dotard's weakness; dotage. [Obs.] Drayton.
DOTE
Natural endowments. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
DOTEHEAD
A dotard. [R.] Tyndale.
DOTERY
The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel. [R.]
DOTH
of Do.
DOTING
That dotes; silly; excessively fond.-- Dot"ing*ly, adv.-- Dot"ing*ness, n.
DOTISH
Foolish; weak; imbecile. Sir W. Scott.
DOTTARD
An old, decayed tree. [R.] Bacon.
DOTTED
Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified withsmall, detached objects. Dotted note (Mus.), a note followed by a dotto indicate an increase of length equal to one half of its simplevalue; thus, a dotted semibreve is equal to three minims, and adotted quarter to three eighth notes.-- Dotted rest, a rest lengthened by a dot in the same manner as adotted note.
DOTTEREL
Decayed. "Some old dotterel trees." [Obs.] Ascham.
DOTTING PEN
See under Pun.
DOTTREL
See Dotterel.
DOTY
Half-rotten; as, doty timber. [Local, U. S.]
DOUANE
A customhouse.
DOUANIER
An officer of the French customs. [Anglicized form douaneer.]
DOUAR
A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets.
DOUAY BIBLE
A translation of the Scriptures into the English language forthe use of English-speaking Roman Catholics; -- done from the LatinVulgate by English scholars resident in France. The New Testamentportion was published at Rheims, A. D. 1582, the Old Testament atDouai, A. D. 1609-10. Various revised editions have since beenpublished. [Written also Doway Bible. Called also the Rheims andDouay version.]
DOUB GRASS
Doob grass.
DOUBLE
Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond thenatural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expenseof the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and someother plants have their blossoms naturally double.
DOUBLE DEALER
One who practices double dealing; a deceitful, trickish person.L'Estrange.
DOUBLE DEALING
False or deceitful dealing. See Double dealing, under Dealing.Shak.
DOUBLE PEDRO
Cinch (the game).
DOUBLE-ACTING
Acting or operating in two directions or with both motions;producing a twofold result; as, a double-acting engine or pump.
DOUBLE-BANK
To row by rowers sitting side by side in twos on a bank orthwart. To double-bank an oar, to set two men to pulling one oar.
DOUBLE-BANKED
Applied to a kind of rowing in which the rowers sit side byside in twos, a pair of oars being worked from each bank or thwart.
DOUBLE-BEAT VALVE
See under Valve.
DOUBLE-BREASTED
Folding or lapping over on the breast, with a row of buttonsand buttonholes on each side; as, a double-breasted coat.
DOUBLE-DECKER
A man-of-war having two gun decks.
DOUBLE-DYE
To dye again or twice over.To double-dye their robes in scarlet. J. Webster.
DOUBLE-DYED
Dyed twice; thoroughly or intensely colored; hence; firmlyfixed in opinions or habits; as, a double-dyed villain.
DOUBLE-ENDER
A locomotive with pilot at each end. Knight.
DOUBLE-ENTENDRE
A word or expression admitting of a double interpretation, oneof which is often obscure or indelicate.
DOUBLE-EYED
Having a deceitful look. [R.] "Deceitful meanings is double-eyed." Spenser.
DOUBLE-HEADED
Having two heads; bicipital. Double-headed rail (Railroad), arail whose flanges are duplicates, so that when one is worn the othermay be turned uppermost.
DOUBLE-HUNG
Having both sashes hung with weights and cords; -- said of awindow.
DOUBLE-LOCK
To lock with two bolts; to fasten with double security. Tatler.
DOUBLE-MILLED
Twice milled or fulled, to render more compact or fine; -- saidof cloth; as, double-milled kerseymere.
DOUBLE-QUICK
Of, or performed in, the fastest time or step in marching, nextto the run; as, a double-quick step or march.
DOUBLE-RIPPER
A kind of coasting sled, made of two sleds fastened togetherwith a board, one before the other. [Local, U. S.]
DOUBLE-SHADE
To double the natural darkness of (a place). Milton.
DOUBLE-SURFACED
Having two surfaces; -- said specif. of aรซroplane wings oraรซrocurves which are covered on both sides with fabric, etc., thuscompletely inclosing their frames.
DOUBLE-TONGUE
Deceit; duplicity.Now cometh the sin of double-tongue, such as speak fair before folkand wickedly behind. Chaucer.
DOUBLE-TONGUED
Making contrary declarations on the same subject; deceitful.Likewise must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued. 1 Tim. iii.8.
DOUBLE-TONGUING
A peculiar action of the tongue by flute players inarticulating staccato notes; also, the rapid repetition of notes incornet playing.
DOUBLEGANGER
An apparition or double of a living person; a doppelgรคnger.
DOUBLEHEARTED
Having a false heart; deceitful; treacherous. Sandys.
DOUBLEMINDED
Having different minds at different times; unsettled;undetermined.A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Jas. i. 8.
DOUBLER
An instrument for augmenting a very small quantity ofelectricity, so as to render it manifest by sparks or theelectroscope.
DOUBLET
A word or words unintentionally doubled or set up a secondtime.
DOUBLETHREADED
Having two screw threads instead of one; -- said of a screw inwhich the pitch is equal to twice the distance between the centers ofadjacent threads.
DOUBLETREE
The bar, or crosspiece, of a carriage, to which the singletreesare attached.
DOUBLETS
See Doublet, 6 and 7.
DOUBLING
The lining of the mantle borne about the shield or escutcheon.
DOUBLOON
A Spanish gold coin, no longer issued, varying in value atdifferent times from over fifteen dollars to about five. See Doblonin Sup.
DOUBTANCE
State of being in doubt; uncertainty; doubt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DOUBTER
One who doubts; one whose opinion is unsettled; one whoscruples.
DOUBTFULLY
In a doubtful manner.Nor did the goddess doubtfully declare. Dryden.
DOUBTING
That is uncertain; that distrusts or hesitates; having doubts.-- Doubt"ing*ly, adv.
DOUBTLESS
Free from fear or suspicion. [Obs.]Pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure. Shak.
DOUBTLESSLY
Unquestionably. Beau. & Fl.
DOUBTOUS
Doubtful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DOUC
A monkey (Semnopithecus nemรฆus), remarkable for its varied andbrilliant colors. It is a native of Cochin China.
DOUCEPERE
One of the twelve peers of France, companions of Charlemagne inwar. [Written also douzepere.] [Obs.]Big-looking like a doughty doucepere. Spenser.
DOUCHE
A syringe.
DOUCINE
Same as Cyma, under Cyma.
DOUCKER
A grebe or diver; -- applied also to the golden-eye, pochard,scoter, and other ducks. [Written also ducker.] [Prov. Eng.]
DOUGH-BAKED
Imperfectly baked; hence, not brought to perfection;unfinished; also, of weak or dull understanding. [Colloq.] Halliwell.
DOUGH-FACED
Easily molded; pliable.
DOUGH-KNEADED
Like dough; soft.He demeans himself . . . like a dough-kneaded thing. Milton.
DOUGHBIRD
The Eskimo curlew (Numenius borealis). See Curlew.
DOUGHFACE
A contemptuous nickname for a timid, yielding politician, orone who is easily molded. [Political cant, U. S.]
DOUGHFACEISM
The character of a doughface; truckling pliability.
DOUGHINESS
The quality or state of being doughy.
DOUGHNUT
A small cake (usually sweetened) fried in a kettle of boilinglard.
DOUGHTILY
In a doughty manner.
DOUGHTINESS
The quality of being doughty; valor; bravery.
DOUGHTREN
Daughters. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DOUGHTY
Able; strong; valiant; redoubtable; as, a doughty hero.Sir Thopas wex [grew] a doughty swain. Chaucer.Doughty families, hugging old musty quarrels to their hearts, buffeteach other from generation to generation. Motley.
DOUGHY
Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as,a doughy complexion.
DOULOCRACY
A government by slaves. [Written also dulocracy.] Hare.
DOUM PALM
See Doom palm.
DOUPE
The carrion crow. [Written also dob.] [Prov. Eng.]
DOUR
Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold.[Scot.]A dour wife, a sour old carlin. C. Reade.
DOURA
A kind of millet. See Durra.
DOUROUCOULI
See Durukuli.
DOUSE
To strike or lower in haste; to slacken suddenly; as, douse thetopsail.
DOUSING-CHOCK
One of several pieces fayed across the apron and lapped in theknightheads, or inside planking above the upper deck. Ham. Nav.Encyc.
DOUT
To put out. [Obs.] "It douts the light." Sylvester.
DOUTER
An extinguisher for candles. [Obs.]
DOVE
A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera. Thespecies are numerous.
DOVE PLANT
A Central American orchid (Peristeria elata), having a flowerstem five or six feet high, with numerous globose white fragrantflowers. The column in the center of the flower resembles a dove; --called also Holy Spirit plant.
DOVE-EYED
Having eyes like a dove; meekeyed; as, dove-eyed Peace.
DOVEKIE
A guillemot (Uria grylle), of the arctic regions. Also appliedto the little auk or sea dove. See under Dove.
DOVELET
A young or small dove. Booth.
DOVELIKE
Mild as a dove; gentle; pure and lovable. Longfellow.
DOVESHIP
The possession of dovelike qualities, harmlessness andinnocence. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
DOVETAIL
A flaring tenon, or tongue (shaped like a bird's tail spread),and a mortise, or socket, into which it fits tightly, making aninterlocking joint between two pieces which resists pulling a part inall directions except one. Dovetail molding (Arch.), a molding of anyconvex section arranged in a sort of zigzag, like a series ofdovetails.-- Dovetail saw (Carp.), a saw used in dovetailing.
DOVISH
Like a dove; harmless; innocent. "Joined with dovishsimplicity." Latimer.
DOW
A kind of vessel. See Dhow.
DOWABLE
Capable of being endowed; entitled to dower. Blackstone.
DOWAGER
A widow endowed, or having a jointure; a widow who eitherenjoys a dower from her deceased husband, or has property of her ownbrought by her to her husband on marriage, and settled on her afterhis decease. Blount. Burrill.
DOWAGERISM
The rank or condition of a dowager; formality, as that of adowager. Also used figuratively.Mansions that have passed away into dowagerism. Thackeray.
DOWCET
One of the testicles of a hart or stag. [Spelt also doucet.] B.Jonson.
DOWDY
Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress;vulgar-looking.-- Dow"di*ly, adv.-- Dow"di*ness, n.
DOWDYISH
Like a dowdy.
DOWEL
To fasten together by dowels; to furnish with dowels; as, acooper dowels pieces for the head of a cask.
DOWER
That portion of the real estate of a man which his widow enjoysduring her life, or to which a woman is entitled after the death ofher husband. Blackstone.
DOWERED
Furnished with, or as with, dower or a marriage portion. Shak.
DOWERLESS
Destitute of dower; having no marriage portion. Shak.
DOWERY
See Dower.
DOWITCHER
The red-breasted or gray snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); --called also brownback, and grayback.
DOWL
Same as Dowle.
DOWLAS
A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and inScotland, now nearly replaced by calico. Shak.
DOWLE
Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather. Shak.No feather, or dowle of a feather. De Quincey.
DOWN
To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down. [R.] Young.
DOWN-SHARE
A breastplow used in paring off turf on downs. [Eng.] Knight.
DOWN-WIND
With the wind.
DOWNBEAR
To bear down; to depress.
DOWNCAST
Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness,modesty, dejection, or guilt.'T is love, said she; and then my downcast eyes, And guilty dumbness,witnessed my surprise. Dryden.- Down"cast`ly, adv.-- Down"cast`ness, n.
DOWNCOME
A pipe for leading combustible gases downward from the top ofthe blast furnace to the hot-blast stoves, boilers, etc., where theyare burned.
DOWNFALLEN
Fallen; ruined. Carew.
DOWNFALLING
Falling down.
DOWNGYVED
Hanging down like gyves or fetters. [Poetic & Rare] Shak.
DOWNHAUL
A rope to haul down, or to assist in hauling down, a sail; as,a staysail downhaul; a trysail downhaul.
DOWNHEARTED
Dejected; low-spirited.
DOWNHILL
Towards the bottom of a hill; as, water runs downhill.
DOWNINESS
The quality or state of being downy.
DOWNLOOKED
Having a downcast countenance; dejected; gloomy; sullen. [R.]Dryden.
DOWNLYING
The time of retiring to rest; time of repose. Cavendish. At thedownlying, at the travail in childbirth. [Scot.]
DOWNPOUR
A pouring or streaming downwards; esp., a heavy or continuousshower.
DOWNSITTING
The act of sitting down; repose; a resting.Thou knowest my downsitting and my uprising. Ps. cxxxix. 2.
DOWNSTAIRS
Down the stairs; to a lower floor.-- a.
DOWNSTEEPY
Very steep. [Obs.] Florio.
DOWNSTREAM
Down the stream; as, floating downstream.
DOWNSTROKE
A stroke made with a downward motion of the pen or pencil.
DOWNTHROW
The sudden drop or depression of the strata of rocks on oneside of a fault. See Throw, n.
DOWNWEED
Cudweed, a species of Gnaphalium.
DOWNWEIGH
To weigh or press down.A different sin downweighs them to the bottom. Longfellow.
DOWRAL
Of or relating to a dower. [R.]
DOWRESS
A woman entitled to dower. Bouvier.
DOWSE
To beat or thrash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
DOWST
A dowse. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
DOWVE
A dove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DOXOLOGICAL
Pertaining to doxology; giving praise to God. Howell.
DOXOLOGIZE
To give glory to God, as in a doxology; to praise God withdoxologies.
DOXOLOGY
In Christian worship: A hymn expressing praise and honor toGod; a form of praise to God designed to be sung or chanted by thechoir or the congregation.David breaks forth into these triumphant praises and doxologies.South.
DOXY
A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart. Shak.
DOYEN
Lit., a dean; the senior member of a body or group; as, thedoyen of French physicians. "This doyen of newspapers."  A. R.Colquhoun.
DOYLY
See Doily.
DOZE
To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefiedcondition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy.If he happened to doze a little, the jolly cobbler waked him.L'Estrange.
DOZENTH
Twelfth. [R.]
DOZER
One who dozes or drowses.
DOZINESS
The state of being dozy; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.
DOZY
Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head.Dryden.
DOZZLED
Stupid; heavy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
DRAB
To associate with strumpets; to wench. Beau. & Fl.
DRABBER
One who associates with drabs; a wencher. Massinger.
DRABBET
A coarse linen fabric, or duck.
DRABBISH
Somewhat drab in color.
DRABBLE
To draggle; to wet and befoul by draggling; as, to drabble agown or cloak. Halliwell.
DRABBLE-TAIL
A draggle-tail; a slattern. Halliwell.
DRABBLER
A piece of canvas fastened by lacing to the bonnet of a sail,to give it a greater depth, or more drop.
DRACAENA
A genus of liliaceous plants with woody stems and funnel-shapedflowers.
DRACANTH
A kind of gum; -- called also gum tragacanth, or tragacanth.See Tragacanth.
DRACHME
See Drachma.
DRACIN
See Draconin.
DRACO
The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the northpole of the ecliptic.
DRACONIAN
Pertaining to Draco, a famous lawgiver of Athens, 621 b. c.Draconian code, or Draconian laws, a code of laws made by Draco.Their measures were so severe that they were said to be written inletters of blood; hence, any laws of excessive rigor.
DRACONIC
Relating to Draco, the Athenian lawgiver; or to theconstellation Draco; or to dragon's blood.
DRACONIN
A red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; --called also dracin.
DRACONTIC
Belonging to that space of time in which the moon performs onerevolution, from ascending node to ascending node. See Dragon's head,under Dragon. [Obs.] "Dracontic month." Crabb.
DRACONTINE
Belonging to a dragon. Southey.
DRAD
Dreaded. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DRADDE
of Dread. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DRADGE
Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing. Raymond.
DRAFF
Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash;waste matter.Prodigals lately come from swine keeping, from eating draff andhusks. Shak.The draff and offal of a bygone age. Buckle.Mere chaff and draff, much better burnt. Tennyson.
DRAFFISH
Worthless; draffy. Bale.
DRAFFY
Dreggy; waste; worthless.The dregs and draffy part. Beau. & Fl.
DRAFTSMAN
See Draughtsman.
DRAG
A confection; a comfit; a drug. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DRAGANTINE
A mucilage obtained from, or containing, gun tragacanth.
DRAGBAR
Same as Drawbar (b). Called also draglink, and drawlink. [U.S.]
DRAGBOLT
A coupling pin. See under Coupling. [U. S.]
DRAGEES
Sugar-coated medicines.
DRAGGLE
To wet and soil by dragging on the ground, mud, or wet grass;to drabble; to trail. Gray.With draggled nets down-hanging to the tide. Trench.
DRAGGLE-TAIL
A slattern who suffers her gown to trail in the mire; adrabble-tail.
DRAGGLE-TAILED
Untidy; sluttish; slatternly. W. Irving.
DRAGMAN
A fisherman who uses a dragnet. Sir M. Hale.
DRAGNET
A net to be drawn along the bottom of a body of water, as infishing.
DRAGOMAN
An interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts ofthe East.
DRAGON
A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous wingedserpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, andregarded as very powerful and ferocious.The dragons which appear in early paintings and sculptures areinvariably representations of a winged crocodile. Fairholt.
DRAGONET
A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called alsoyellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie.
DRAGONISH
resembling a dragon. Shak.
DRAGONLIKE
Like a dragon. Shak.
DRAGONNADE
The severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV.,by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid anddevastating incursion; dragoonade.He learnt it as he watched the dragonnades, the tortures, themassacres of the Netherlands. C. Kingsley.
DRAGOON
Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either onhorseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man.
DRAGOONADE
See Dragonnade.
DRAGOONER
A dragoon. [Obs.]
DRAIL
To trail; to draggle. [Obs.] South.
DRAIN
The grain from the mashing tub; as, brewers' drains. [Eng.]Halliwell. Box drain, Counter drain. See under Box, Counter.-- Right of drain (Law), an easement or servitude by which one manhas a right to convey water in pipes through or over the estate ofanother. Kent.
DRAINABLE
Capable of being drained.
DRAINAGE
The system of drains and their operation, by which superfluouswater is removed from towns, railway beds, mines, and other works.
DRAINE
The missel thrush.
DRAINER
One who, or that which, drains.
DRAINING
The art of carrying off surplus water, as from land. Drainingtile. Same as Draintile.
DRAINPIPE
A pipe used for carrying off surplus water.
DRAINTILE
A hollow tile used in making drains; -- called also drainingtile.
DRAINTRAP
See 4th Trap, 5.
DRAKE
The drake fly.The drake will mount steeple height into the air. Walton.Drake fly, a kind of fly, sometimes used in angling.The dark drake fly, good in August. Walton.
DRAKESTONE
A flat stone so thrown along the surface of water as to skipfrom point to point before it sinks; also, the sport of so throwingstones; -- sometimes called ducks and drakes.Internal earthquakes, that, not content with one throe, run alongspasmodically, like boys playing at what is called drakestone. DeQuincey.
DRAM
A Persian daric. Ezra ii. 69. Fluid dram, or Fluid drachm. Seeunder Fluid.
DRAMA
Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having thequalities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid.The emperor . . . performed his part with much dramatic effect.Motley.
DRAMATICALLY
In a dramatic manner; theatrically; vividly.
DRAMATIS PERSONAE
The actors in a drama or play.
DRAMATIST
The author of a dramatic composition; a writer of plays.
DRAMATIZABLE
Capable of being dramatized.
DRAMATIZATION
Act of dramatizing.
DRAMATIZE
To compose in the form of the drama; to represent in a drama;to adapt to dramatic representation; as, to dramatize a novel, or anhistorical episode.They dramatized tyranny for public execration. Motley.
DRAMATURGIC
Relating to dramaturgy.
DRAMATURGIST
One versed in dramaturgy. Carlyle.
DRAMATURGY
The art of dramatic composition and representation.
DRAMMING
The practice of drinking drams.
DRAMSELLER
One who sells distilled liquors by the dram or glass.
DRAMSHOP
A shop or barroom where spirits are sold by the dram.
DRANK
of Drink.
DRAPER
One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper andtailor.
DRAPERIED
Covered or supplied with drapery. [R.] Byron.
DRAPET
Cloth. [Obs.] Spenser.
DRASTIC
Acting rapidly and violently; efficacious; powerful; -- opposedto bland; as, drastic purgatives.-- n. (Med.)
DRASTY
Filthy; worthless. [Obs.] "Drasty ryming." Chaucer.
DRAUGH
See Draft. [Obs.]
DRAUGHT
The act of selecting or detaching soldiers; a draft (see Draft,n., 2)(g) The act of drawing up, marking out, or delineating;representation. Dryden.
DRAUGHTBOARD
A checkered board on which draughts are played. SeeCheckerboard.
DRAUGHTHOUSE
A house for the reception of waste matter; a privy. [Obs.] 2Kings x. 27.
DRAUGHTS
A mild vesicatory. See Draught, n., 3 (c).
DRAUGHTSMANSHIP
The office, art, or work of a draughtsman.
DRAUGHTY
Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly,comfortless room.
DRAVE
, old imp. of Drive. [Obs.]
DRAVIDA
A race Hindostan, believed to be the original people whooccupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion.
DRAVIDIAN
Of or pertaining to the Dravida. Dravidian languages, a groupof languages of Southern India, which seem to have been the idioms ofthe natives, before the invasion of tribes speaking Sanskrit. Ofthese languages, the Tamil is the most important.
DRAW
To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; --said of a blister, poultice, etc.
DRAW-CUT
A single cut with a knife.
DRAWABLE
Capable of being drawn.
DRAWBACK
Money paid back or remitted; especially, a certain amount ofduties or customs, sometimes the whole, and sometimes only a part,remitted or paid back by the government, on the exportation of thecommodities on which they were levied. M
DRAWBENCH
A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through adrawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also calleddrawing bench.
DRAWBOLT
A coupling pin. See under Coupling.
DRAWBORE
A hole bored through a tenon nearer to the shoulder than theholes through the cheeks are to the edge or abutment against whichthe shoulder is to rest, so that a pin or bolt, when driven into it,will draw these parts together. Weale.
DRAWBOY
A boy who operates the harness cords of a hand loom; also, apart of power loom that performs the same office.
DRAWBRIDGE
A bridge of which either the whole or a part is made to beraised up, let down, or drawn or turned aside, to admit or hindercommunication at pleasure, as before the gate of a town or castle, orover a navigable river or canal.
DRAWCANSIR
A blustering, bullying fellow; a pot-valiant braggart; a bully.The leader was of an ugly look and gigantic stature; he acted like adrawcansir, sparing neither friend nor foe. Addison.
DRAWEE
The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; --the correlative of drawer.
DRAWER
An under-garment worn on the lower limbs. Chest of drawers. Seeunder Chest.
DRAWFILING
The process of smooth filing by working the file sidewiseinstead of lengthwise.
DRAWGEAR
The means or parts by which cars are connected to be drawn.
DRAWGLOVES
An old game, played by holding up the fingers. Herrick.
DRAWHEAD
The flanged outer end of a drawbar; also, a name applied to thedrawgear.
DRAWING
The process of pulling out and elongating the sliver from thecarding machine, by revolving rollers, to prepare it for spinning.
DRAWL
To utter in a slow, lengthened tone.
DRAWLATCH
A housebreaker or thief. [Obs.] Old Play (1631).
DRAWLING
The act of speaking with a drawl; a drawl.-- Drawl"ing*ly, adv. Bacon.
DRAWLINK
Same as Drawbar (b).
DRAWN
See Draw, v. t. & i. Drawn butter, butter melter and preparedto be used as a sort of gravy.-- Drawn fowl, an eviscerated fowl.-- Drawn game or battle, one in which neither party wins; oneequally contested.-- Drawn fox, one driven from cover. Shak.-- Drawn work, ornamental work made by drawing out threads from finecloth, and uniting the cross threads, to form a pattern.
DRAWNET
A net for catching the larger sorts of birds; also, a dragnet.Crabb.
DRAWPLATE
A hardened steel plate having a hole, or a gradation of conicalholes, through which wires are drawn to be reduced and elongated.
DRAWROD
A rod which unites the drawgear at opposite ends of the car,and bears the pull required to draw the train.
DRAWSHAVE
See Drawing knife.
DRAWSPRING
The spring to which a drawbar is attached.
DRAY
A squirrel's nest. Cowper.
DRAYMAN
A man who attends a dray.
DRAZEL
A slut; a vagabond wench. Same as Drossel. [Obs.] Hudibras.
DREAD
To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, withterrific apprehension.When at length the moment dreaded through so many years came close,the dark cloud passed away from Johnson's mind. Macaulay.
DREAD-BOLTED
Armed with dreaded bolts. "Dread-bolted thunder." [Poetic]Shak.
DREADABLE
Worthy of being dreaded.
DREADER
One who fears, or lives in fear.
DREADFULLY
In a dreadful manner; terribly. Dryden.
DREADFULNESS
The quality of being dreadful.
DREADINGLY
With dread. Warner.
DREADLESS
Without doubt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DREADLESSNESS
Freedom from dread.
DREADLY
Dreadful. [Obs.] "Dreadly spectacle." Spenser.-- adv.
DREAM
To have a dream of; to see, or have a vision of, in sleep, orin idle fancy; -- often followed by an objective clause.Your old men shall dream dreams. Acts ii. 17.At length in sleep their bodies they compose, And dreamt the futurefight. Dryden.And still they dream that they shall still succeed. Cowper.To dream away, out, through, etc., to pass in revery or inaction; tospend in idle vagaries; as, to dream away an hour; to dream throughlife. " Why does Antony dream out his hours" Dryden.
DREAMFUL
Full of dreams. " Dreamful ease." Tennyson.-- Dream"ful*ly, adv.
DREAMILY
As if in a dream; softly; slowly; languidly. Longfellow.
DREAMINESS
The state of being dreamy.
DREAMINGLY
In a dreamy manner.
DREAMLAND
An unreal, delightful country such as in sometimes pictured indreams; region of fancies; fairyland.[He] builds a bridge from dreamland for his lay. Lowell.
DREAMLESS
Free from, or without, dreams. Camden.-- Dream"less*ly, adv.
DREAMY
Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, orlike, dreams; visionary. "The dreamy dells." Tennyson.
DREAR
Dismal; gloomy with solitude. "A drear and dying sound."Milton.
DREARILY
Gloomily; dismally.
DREARIMENT
Dreariness. [Obs.] Spenser.
DREARING
Sorrow. [Obs.] Spenser.
DREARISOME
Very dreary. Halliwell.
DRECCHE
To delay. [Obs.] Gower.
DREDGE
Very fine mineral matter held in suspension in water. Raymond.
DREDGER
A box with holes in its lid; -- used for sprinkling flour, ason meat or a breadboard; -- called also dredging box, drudger, anddrudging box.
DREE
To endure; to suffer. [Scot.]
DREG
Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, orprecipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment;hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregsof society.We, the dregs and rubbish of mankind. Dryden.
DREGGINESS
Fullness of dregs or lees; foulness; feculence.
DREGGISH
Foul with lees; feculent. Harvey.
DREGGY
Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent. Boyle.
DREIBUND
A triple alliance; specif., the alliance of Germany, Austria,and Italy, formed in 1882.
DREIN
To drain. [Obs.] Congreve.
DREISSENA
A genus of bivalve shells of which one species (D. polymorpha)is often so abundant as to be very troublesome in the fresh waters ofEurope.
DRENCH
A drink; a draught; specifically, a potion of medicine pouredor forced down the throat; also, a potion that causes purging. "Adrench of wine." Dryden.Give my roan horse a drench. Shak.
DRENCHE
To drown. [Obs.]In the sea he drenched. Chaucer.
DRENGAGE
The tenure by which a drench held land. [Obs.] Burrill.
DRENT
Drenched; drowned. [Obs.] "Condemned to be drent." Spenser.
DRESDEN WARE
A superior kind of decorated porcelain made near Dresden inSaxony.
DRESS
To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonlyto adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, todress the ranks.
DRESS CIRCLE
A gallery or circle in a theater, generally the first above thefloor, in which originally dress clothes were customarily worn.
DRESS COAT
A coat with skirts behind only, as distinct from the frockcoat, of which the skirts surround the body. It is worn on occasionsof ceremony. The dress coat of officers of the United States army isa full-skirted frock coat.
DRESS GOODS
A term applied to fabrics for the gowns of women and girls; --most commonly to fabrics of mixed materials, but also applicable tosilks, printed linens, and calicoes.
DRESSER
A kind of pick for shaping large coal.
DRESSINESS
The state of being dressy.
DRESSING
An application (a remedy, bandage, etc.) to a sore or wound.Wiseman.
DRESSMAKER
A maker of gowns, or similar garments; a mantuamaker.
DRESSMAKING
The art, process, or occupation, of making dresses.
DRESSY
Showy in dress; attentive to dress.A dressy flaunting maidservant. T. Hook.A neat, dressy gentleman in black. W. Irving.
DREST
of Dress.
DRETCH
See Drecche. [Obs.]
DREUL
To drool. [Obs.]
DREVIL
A fool; a drudge. See Drivel.
DREW
of Draw.
DREY
A squirrel's nest. See Dray. [Obs.]
DREYE
Dry. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DRIB
To do by little and little; as:(a) To cut off by a little at a time; to crop.(b) To appropriate unlawfully; to filch; to defalcate.He who drives their bargain dribs a part. Dryden.
DRIBBER
One who dribs; one who shoots weakly or badly. [Obs.] Ascham.
DRIBBLE
To let fall in drops.Let the cook . . . dribble it all the way upstairs. Swift.
DRIBBLER
One who dribbles.
DRIE
To endure. [Obs.]So causeless such drede for to drie. Chaucer.
DRIED
of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples.
DRIER
Drying oil; a substance mingled with the oil used in oilpainting to make it dry quickly.
DRIFT
The horizontal thrust or pressure of an arch or vault upon theabutments. [R.] Knight.
DRIFTBOLT
A bolt for driving out other bolts.
DRIFTLESS
Having no drift or direction; without aim; purposeless.
DRIFTPIECE
An upright or curved piece of timber connecting the plank sheerwith the gunwale; also, a scroll terminating a rail.
DRIFTPIN
A smooth drift. See Drift, n., 9.
DRIFTWAY
Same as Drift, 11.
DRIFTWEED
Seaweed drifted to the shore by the wind. Darwin.
DRIFTWIND
A driving wind; a wind that drives snow, sand, etc., intoheaps. Beau. & Fl.
DRIFTY
Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like.
DRILL
To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self.
DRILL PRESS
A machine for drilling holes in metal, the drill being pressedto the metal by the action of a screw.
DRILLER
One who, or that which, drills.
DRILLING
The act of using a drill in sowing seeds.
DRILLMASTER
One who teaches drill, especially in the way of gymnastics.Macaulay.
DRILLSTOCK
A contrivance for holding and turning a drill. Knight.
DRILY
See Dryly. Thackeray.
DRIMYS
A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishesWinter's bark.
DRINKABLE
Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable. Macaulay.Also used substantively, esp. in the plural. Steele.
DRINKABLENESS
State of being drinkable.
DRINKER
One who drinks; as, the effects of tea on the drinker; also,one who drinks spirituous liquors to excess; a drunkard. Drinker moth(Zoรถl.), a large British moth (Odonestis potatoria).
DRINKLESS
Destitute of drink. Chaucer.
DRIP
To let fall in drops.Which from the thatch drips fast a shower of rain. Swift.
DRIPPLE
Weak or rare. [Obs.]
DRIPSTONE
A drip, when made of stone. See Drip, 2.
DRIVE
To dig Horizontally; to cut a horizontal gallery or tunnel.Tomlinson.
DRIVEBOLT
A drift; a tool for setting bolts home.
DRIVEL
To be weak or foolish; to dote; as, a driveling hero; drivelinglove. Shak. Dryden.
DRIVELER
A slaverer; a slabberer; an idiot; a fool. [Written alsodriveller.]
DRIVEN
of Drive. Also adj. Driven well, a well made by driving a tubeinto the earth to an aqueous stratum; -- called also drive well.
DRIVEPIPE
A pipe for forcing into the earth.
DRIVER
A part that transmits motion to another part by contact withit, or through an intermediate relatively movable part, as a gearwhich drives another, or a lever which moves another through a link,etc. Specifically:(a) The driving wheel of a locomotive.(b) An attachment to a lathe, spindle, or face plate to turn acarrier.(c) A crossbar on a grinding mill spindle to drive the upper stone.
DRIVEWAY
A passage or way along or through which a carriage may bedriven.
DRIZZLE
To rain slightly in very small drops; to fall, as water fromthe clouds, slowly and in fine particles; as, it drizzles; drizzlingdrops or rain. "Drizzling tears." Spenser.
DRIZZLY
Characterized by small rain, or snow; moist and disagreeable."Winter's drizzly reign." Dryden.
DROCK
A water course. [Prov. Eng.]
DROGHER
A small craft used in the West India Islands to take offsugars, rum, etc., to the merchantmen; also, a vessel fortransporting lumber, cotton, etc., coastwise; as, a lumber drogher.[Written also droger.] Ham. Nar. Encyc.
DROGUE
See Drag, n.,
DROH
of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DROIL
To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod. [Obs.]
DROIT
A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also,in old law, the writ of right. Abbott. Droit d'aubaine. See underAubaine.-- Droits of the Admiralty (Eng. Law), rights or perquisites of theAdmiralty, arising from seizure of an enemy's ships in port on thebreaking out of war, or those coming into port in ignorance ofhostilities existing, or from such ships as are taken bynoncommissioned captors; also, the proceeds of wrecks, and derelictproperty at sea. The droits of admiralty are now paid into theExchequer for the public benefit.
DROITURAL
relating to the mere right of property, as distinguished fromthe right of possession; as, droitural actions. [Obs.] Burrill.
DROITZSCHKA
See Drosky.
DROLL
Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity;amusing and strange.
DROLLER
A jester; a droll. [Obs.] Glanvill.
DROLLINGLY
In a jesting manner.
DROLLISH
Somewhat droll. Sterne.
DROLLIST
A droll. [R.] Glanvill.
DROMAEOGNATHOUS
Having the structure of the palate like that of the ostrich andemu.
DROMATHERIUM
A small extinct triassic mammal from North Carolina, theearliest yet found in America.
DROME
The crab plover (Dromas ardeola), a peculiar North Africanbird, allied to the oyster catcher.
DROMEDARY
The Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius), having one hump orprotuberance on the back, in distinction from the Bactrian camel,which has two humps.
DRONE
The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey.See Honeybee.All with united force combine to drive The lazy drones from thelaborious hive. Dryden.
DRONE BEE
The male of the honeybee; a drone.
DRONE FLY
A dipterous insect (Eristalis tenax), resembling the drone bee.See Eristalis.
DRONEPIPE
One of the low-toned tubes of a bagpipe.
DRONGO
A passerine bird of the family Dicruridรฆ. They are usuallyblack with a deeply forked tail. They are natives of Asia, Africa,and Australia; -- called also drongo shrikes.
DRONISH
Like a drone; indolent; slow. Burke.-- Dron"ish*ly, adv.-- Dron"ish*ness, n.
DRONKELEWE
Given to drink; drunken. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DRONTE
The dodo.
DRONY
Like a drone; sluggish; lazy.
DROOL
To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools.His mouth drooling with texts. T. Parker.
DROOP
To let droop or sink. [R.] M. Arnold.Like to a withered vine That droops his sapless branches to theground. Shak.
DROOPER
One who, or that which, droops.
DROOPINGLY
In a drooping manner.
DROP
Any medicine the dose of which is measured by drops; as,lavender drops.
DROPLET
A little drop; a tear. Shak.
DROPLIGHT
An apparatus for bringing artificial light down from achandelier nearer to a table or desk; a pendant.
DROPPER
A branch vein which drops off from, or leaves, the main lode.
DROPPING
That which falls in drops; the excrement or dung of animals.Dropping bottle, an instrument used to supply small quantities of afluid to a test tube or other vessel.-- Dropping fire, a continued irregular discharge of firearms.-- Dropping tube, a tube for ejecting any liquid in drops.
DROPPINGLY
In drops.
DROPSICALNESS
State of being dropsical.
DROPSIED
Diseased with drops. Shak.
DROPSY
An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity ofthe body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Dunglison.
DROPT
imp. & p. p. of Drop, v. G. Eliot.
DROPWISE
After the manner of a drop; in the form of drops.Trickling dropwise from the cleft. Tennyson.
DROPWORM
The larva of any geometrid moth, which drops from trees bymeans of a thread of silk, as the cankerworm.
DROPWORT
An Old World species of Spirรฆa (S. filipendula), with finelycut leaves.
DROSERA
A genus of low perennial or biennial plants, the leaves ofwhich are beset with gland-tipped bristles. See Sundew. Gray.
DROSKY
A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consistingof a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on asaddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground. Other kinds ofvehicles are now so called, esp. a kind of victoria drawn by one ortwo horses, and used as a public carriage in German cities. [Writtenalso droitzschka, and droschke.]
DROSOMETER
An instrument for measuring the quantity of dew on the surfaceof a body in the open air. It consists of a balance, having a plateat one end to receive the dew, and at the other a weight protectedfrom the deposit of dew.
DROSSEL
A slut; a hussy; a drazel. [Obs.] Warner.
DROSSLESS
Free from dross. Stevens.
DROSSY
Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure;worthless. " Drossy gold." Dryden. "Drossy rhymes." Donne.-- Dross"i*ness, n.
DROTCHEL
See Drossel. [Obs.]
DROUGH
of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DROUGHTINESS
A state of dryness of the weather; want of rain.
DROUMY
Troubled; muddy. [Obs.] Bacon.
DROUTH
Same as Drought. Sandys.Another ill accident is drouth at the spindling of corn. Bacon.One whose drouth [thirst], Yet scarce allayed, still eyes the currentstream. Milton.In the dust and drouth of London life. Tennyson.
DROUTHY
Droughty.
DROVE
of Drive.
DROVEN
of Drive. [Obs.]
DROVY
Turbid; muddy; filthy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DROW
of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DROWN
To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water.Methought, what pain it was to drown. Shak.
DROWNAGE
The act of drowning. [R.]
DROWNER
One who, or that which, drowns.
DROWSE
To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy withsleepiness; to doze. "He drowsed upon his couch." South.In the pool drowsed the cattle up to their knees. Lowell.
DROWSIHEAD
Drowsiness. Thomson.
DROWSIHED
Drowsihead. [Obs.] Spenser.
DROWSILY
In a drowsy manner.
DROWSINESS
State of being drowsy. Milton.
DROWTH
See Drought. Bacon.
DROYLE
See Droil. [Obs.] Spenser.
DRUB
To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel.Soundly Drubbed with a good honest cudgel. L'Estrange.
DRUBBER
One who drubs. Sir W. Scott.
DRUDGE
To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant officeswith toil and fatigue.He gradually rose in the estimation of the booksellers for whom hedrudged. Macaulay.
DRUDGERY
The act of drudging; disagreeable and wearisome labor; ignobleor slavish toil.The drudgery of penning definitions. Macaulay.Paradise was a place of bliss . . . without drudgery and with outsorrow. Locke.
DRUDGING BOX
See Dredging box.
DRUDGINGLY
In a drudging manner; laboriously.
DRUERY
Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love. [Obs.] Chaucer.
DRUG
To drudge; to toil laboriously. [Obs.] "To drugge and draw."Chaucer.
DRUGGER
A druggist. [Obs.] Burton.
DRUGGIST
One who deals in drugs; especially, one who buys and sellsdrugs without compounding them; also, a pharmaceutist or apothecary.
DRUGSTER
A druggist. [Obs.] Boule.
DRUIDESS
A female Druid; a prophetess.
DRUIDISH
Druidic.
DRUIDISM
The system of religion, philosophy, and instruction, receivedand taught by the Druids; the rites and ceremonies of the Druids.
DRUM
An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollowcylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin orvellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere(kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the commoninstrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair oftympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band.The drums cry bud-a-dub. Gascoigne.
DRUM MAJOR
.
DRUM WINDING
A method of armature winding in which the wire is wound uponthe outer surface of a cylinder or drum from end to end of thecylinder; -- distinguished from ring winding, etc.
DRUMBEAT
The sound of a beaten drum; drum music.Whose morning drumbeat, following the sun, and keeping company withthe hours, circles the earth with one continuous and unbroken strainof the martial airs of England. D. Webster.
DRUMFISH
any fish of the family Sciรฆnidรฆ, which makes a loud noise bymeans of its air bladder; -- called also drum.
DRUMLIN
A hill of compact, unstratified, glacial drift or till, usuallyelongate or oval, with the larger axis parallel to the former localglacial motion.
DRUMLY
Turbid; muddy. [Scot. & Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wodroephe (1623).Burns.
DRUMMER
A fish that makes a sound when caught; as:(a) The squeteague.(b) A California sculpin.
DRUMMING
The act of beating upon, or as if upon, a drum; also, the noisewhich the male of the ruffed grouse makes in spring, by beating hiswings upon his sides.
DRUMMOND LIGHT
A very intense light, produced by turning two streams of gas,one oxygen and the other hydrogen, or coal gas, in a state ofignition, upon a ball of lime; or a stream of oxygen gas through aflame of alcohol upon a ball or disk of lime; -- called alsooxycalcium light, or lime light.
DRUNK
A drunken condition; a spree. [Slang]
DRUNKARD
One who habitually drinks strong liquors immoderately; onewhose habit it is to get drunk; a toper; a sot.The drunkard and glutton shall come to poverty. Prov. xxiii. 21.
DRUNKENHEAD
Drunkenness. [Obs.]
DRUNKENLY
In a drunken manner. [R.] Shak.
DRUNKENNESS
The state of being drunk; drunkenness. [Obs.] Gower.
DRUPACEOUS
Producing, or pertaining to, drupes; having the form of drupes;as, drupaceous trees or fruits.
DRUPAL
Drupaceous.
DRUPE
A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp,without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarpis succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry andsubcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut.
DRUSE
A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded withcrystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode.
DRY
Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire orcomparative absence of moisture; as, dry gangrene; dry catarrh.
DRY DOCK
See under Dock.
DRY GOODS
A commercial name for textile fabrics, cottons, woolens, linen,silks, laces, etc., -- in distinction from groceries. [U.S.]
DRY NURSE
A nurse who attends and feeds a child by hand; -- indistinction from a wet nurse, who suckles it.
DRY-BEAT
To beat severely. Shak.
DRY-BONED
Having dry bones, or bones without flesh.
DRY-EYED
Not having tears in the eyes.
DRY-FISTED
Niggardly.
DRY-RUB
To rub and cleanse without wetting. Dodsley.
DRY-SHOD
Without wetting the feet.
DRY-STONE
Constructed of uncemented stone. "Dry-stone walls." Sir W.Scott.
DRYAD
A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of hertree.
DRYANDRA
A genus of shrubs growing in Australia, having beautiful, hard,dry, evergreen leaves.
DRYAS
A dryad.
DRYER
See Drier. Sir W. Temple.
DRYFOOT
The scent of the game, as far as it can be traced. [Obs.] Shak.
DRYLY
In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; withoutsympathy; coldly.
DRYNESS
The state of being dry. See Dry.
DRYNURSE
To feed, attend, and bring up without the breast. Hudibras.
DRYOBALANOPS
The genus to which belongs the single species D. Camphora, alofty resinous tree of Borneo and Sumatra, yielding Borneo camphorand camphor oil.
DRYSALTER
A dealer in salted or dried meats, pickles, sauces, etc., andin the materials used in pickling, salting, and preserving variouskinds of food Hence drysalters usually sell a number of salinesubstances and miscellaneous drugs. Brande & C.
DRYSALTERY
The articles kept by a drysalter; also, the business of adrysalter.
DUAD
A union of two; duality. [R.] Harris.
DUAL
Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two;as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek.Here you have one half of our dual truth. Tyndall.
DUALIN
An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust orwood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitrocompounds. It is inferior to dynamite, and is more liable toexplosion.
DUALISM
State of being dual or twofold; a twofold division; any systemwhich is founded on a double principle, or a twofold distinction; as:(a) (Philos.) A view of man as constituted of two original andindependent elements, as matter and spirit. (Theol.)(b) A system which accepts two gods, or two original principles, onegood and the other evil.(c) The doctrine that all mankind are divided by the arbitrary decreeof God, and in his eternal foreknowledge, into two classes, the electand the reprobate.(d) (Physiol.) The theory that each cerebral hemisphere actsindependently of the other.An inevitable dualism bisects nature, so that each thing is a half,and suggests another thing to make it whole. Emerson.
DUALISTIC
Consisting of two; pertaining to dualism or duality. Dualisticsystem or theory (Chem.), the theory, originated by Lavoisier anddeveloped by Berzelius, that all definite compounds are binary intheir nature, and consist of two distinct constituents, themselvessimple or complex, and possessed of opposite chemical or electricalaffinities.
DUALITY
The quality or condition of being two or twofold; dualcharacter or usage.
DUAN
A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song.[R.]
DUARCHY
Government by two persons.
DUB
To make a noise by brisk drumbeats. "Now the drum dubs." Beau.& Fl.
DUBB
The Syrian bear. See under Bear. [Written also dhubb, and dub.]
DUBBER
One who, or that which, dubs.
DUBIETY
Doubtfulness; uncertainty; doubt. [R.] Lamb. "The dubiety ofhis fate." Sir W. Scott.
DUBIOSITY
The state of being doubtful; a doubtful statement or thing.[R.]Men often swallow falsities for truths, dubiosities for certainties,possibilities for feasibilities. Sir T. Browne.
DUBIOUSLY
In a dubious manner.
DUBIOUSNESS
State of being dubious.
DUBITABLE
Liable to be doubted; uncertain. [R.] Dr. H. More.-- Du"bi*ta*bly, adv. [R.]
DUBITANCY
Doubt; uncertainty. [R.] Hammond.
DUBITATE
To doubt. [R.]If he . . . were to loiter dubitating, and not come. Carlyle.
DUBITATION
Act of doubting; doubt. [R.] Sir T. Scott.
DUBITATIVE
Tending to doubt; doubtful. [R.] -- Du"bi*ta*tive*ly, adv. [R.]. Eliot.
DUBOISIA
Same as Duboisine.
DUBOISINE
An alkaloid obtained from the leaves of an Australian tree(Duboisia myoporoides), and regarded as identical with hyoscyamine.It produces dilation of the pupil of the eye.
DUCAL
Of or pertaining to a duke.His ducal cap was to be exchanged for a kingly crown. Motley.
DUCALLY
In the manner of a duke, or in a manner becoming the rank of aduke.
DUCAT
A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries inEurope; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke.
DUCATOON
A silver coin of several countries of Europe, and of differentvalues.
DUCES TECUM
A judicial process commanding a person to appear in court andbring with him some piece of evidence or other thing to be producedto the court.
DUCHESS
The wife or widow of a duke; also, a lady who has thesovereignty of a duchy in her own right.
DUCHESSE LACE
A beautiful variety of Brussels pillow lace made originally inBelgium and resembling Honiton guipure. It is worked with fine threadin large sprays, usually of the primrose pattern, with much raisedwork.
DUCHY
The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.
DUCK
A pet; a darling. Shak.
DUCK-BILLED
Having a bill like that of a duck..
DUCK-LEGGED
Having short legs, like a waddling duck; short-legged. Dryden.
DUCKBILL
See Duck mole, under Duck, n.
DUCKING
, from Duck, v. t. & i. Ducking stool, a stool or chair inwhich common scolds were formerly tied, and plunged into water, as apunishment. See Cucking stool. The practice of ducking began in thelatter part of the 15th century, and prevailed until the early partof the 18th, and occasionally as late as the 19th century.Blackstone. Chambers.
DUCKLING
A young or little duck. Gay.
DUCKWEED
A genus (Lemna) of small plants, seen floating in greatquantity on the surface of stagnant pools fresh water, and supposedto furnish food for ducks; -- called also duckmeat.
DUCT
One of the vessels of an animal body by which the products ofglandular secretion are conveyed to their destination.
DUCTIBLE
Capable of being drawn out [R.] Feltham.
DUCTILIMETER
An instrument for accurately determining the ductility ofmetals.
DUCTION
Guidance. [Obs.] Feltham.
DUCTLESS
Having to duct or outlet; as, a ductless gland.
DUCTOR
A contrivance for removing superfluous ink or coloring matterfrom a roller. See Doctor, 4. Knight. Ductor roller (Printing), theroller which conveys or supplies ink to another roller. Knight.
DUCTURE
Guidance. [Obs.] South.
DUDDER
To confuse or confound with noise. Jennings.
DUDDERY
A place where rags are bought and kept for sale. [Eng.]
DUDE
A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by anultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations. [Recent]The social dude who affects English dress and English drawl. TheAmerican.
DUDEEN
A short tobacco pipe. [Written also dudheen.] [Irish]
DUDGEON
Resentment; ill will; anger; displeasure.I drink it to thee in dudgeon and hostility.Sir T. Scott.
DUDISH
Like, or characterized of, a dude.
DUE
Directly; exactly; as, a due east course.
DUEBILL
A brief written acknowledgment of a debt, not made payable toorder, like a promissory note. Burrill.
DUEFUL
Fit; becoming. [Obs.] Spenser.
DUEL
A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, byagreement. It usually arises from an injury done or an affront givenby one to the other. Trial by duel (Old Law), a combat between twopersons for proving a cause; trial by battel.
DUELER
One who engages in a duel. [R.] [Written also dueller.] South.
DUELING
e act or practice of fighting in single combat. Also adj.[Written also duelling.]
DUELIST
One who fights in single combat. [Written also duellist.]A duelist . . . always values himself upon his courage, his sense ofhonor, his fidelity and friendship. Hume.
DUELO
A duel; also, the rules of dueling. [Obs.] Shak.
DUENESS
Quality of being due; debt; what is due or becoming. T.Goodwin.
DUET
A composition for two performers, whether vocal orinstrumental.
DUETTINO
A duet of short extent and concise form.
DUETTO
See Duet.
DUFFEL
A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze.[Written also duffle.]Good duffel gray and flannel fine. Wordsworth.
DUFFEL BAG
A sack to hold miscellaneous articles, as tools, supplies, orthe like.
DUFFLE
See Duffel.
DUFRENITE
A mineral of a blackish green color, commonly massive or innodules. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.
DUG
A teat, pap, or nipple; -- formerly that of a human mother, nowthat of a cow or other beast.With mother's dug between its lips. Shak.
DUGONG
An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the orderSirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail. It inhabitsthe Red Sea, Indian Ocean, East Indies, and Australia. [Written alsoduyong.]
DUGWAY
A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface ofthe land. [U.S.]
DUKE
To play the duke. [Poetic]Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence. Shak.
DUKELING
A little or insignificant duke. Ford.
DUKESHIP
The quality or condition of being a duke; also, the personalityof a duke. Massinger.
DULCAMARA
A plant (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet, n.,
DULCAMARIN
A glucoside extracted from the bittersweet (Solanum Dulcamara),as a yellow amorphous substance. It probably occasions the compoundtaste. See Bittersweet, 3(a).
DULCE
To make sweet; to soothe. [Obs.]
DULCENESS
Sweetness. [Obs.] Bacon.
DULCIANA
A sweet-toned stop of an organ.
DULCIFICATION
The act of dulcifying or sweetening. Boyle.
DULCIFIED
Sweetened; mollified. Dulcified spirit or spirits, a compoundof alcohol with mineral acids; as, dulcified spirits of niter.
DULCIFLUOUS
Flowing sweetly. [R.]
DULCIFY
To sweeten; to free from acidity, saltness, or acrimony.Wiseman.
DULCILOQUY
A soft manner of speaking.
DULCINEA
A mistress; a sweetheart.I must ever have some Dulcinea in my head. Sterne.
DULCINESS
See Dulceness. [Obs.]
DULCINO
See Dolcino.
DULCITE
A white, sugarlike substance, C6H8.(OH)2, occurring naturallyin a manna from Madagascar, and in certain plants, and producedartificially by the reduction of galactose and lactose or milk sugar.
DULCITUDE
Sweetness. [R.] Cockeram.
DULCORATE
To sweeten; to make less acrimonious. [R.] Bacon.
DULCORATION
The act of sweetening. [R.] Bacon.
DULEDGE
One of the dowels joining the ends of the fellies which formthe circle of the wheel of a gun carriage. Wilhelm.
DULIA
An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angelsand saints as the servants of God.
DULL
To become dull or stupid. Rom. of R.
DULL-BRAINED
Stupid; doltish. Shak.
DULL-BROWED
Having a gloomy look.
DULL-EYED
Having eyes wanting brightness, liveliness, or vivacity. Shak.
DULL-SIGHTED
Having poor eyesight.
DULL-WITTED
Stupid.
DULLARD
A stupid person; a dunce. Shak.-- a.
DULLER
One who, or that which, dulls.
DULLHEAD
A blockhead; a dolt. Ascham.
DULLISH
Somewhat dull; uninteresting; tiresome. "A series of dullishverses." Prof. Wilson.
DULLNESS
The state of being dull; slowness; stupidity; heaviness;drowsiness; bluntness; obtuseness; dimness; want of luster; want ofvividness, or of brightness. [Written also dulness.]And gentle dullness ever loves a joke. Pope.
DULLSOME
Dull. [R.] Gataker.
DULLY
In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life orspirit.Supinely calm and dully innocent. G. Lyttelton.
DULOCRACY
See Doulocracy.
DULSE
A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten,as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common isRhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.]The crimson leaf of the dulse is seen To blush like a banner bathedin slaughter. Percival.
DULWILLY
The ring plover. [Prov. Eng.]
DULY
In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought tobe; properly; regularly.
DUMAL
Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly. [R.]
DUMB
To put to silence. [Obs.] Shak.
DUMB-BELL
A weight, consisting of two spheres or spheroids, connected bya short bar for a handle; used (often in pairs) for gymnasticexercise.
DUMB-WAITER
A framework on which dishes, food, etc., are passed from oneroom or story of a house to another; a lift for dishes, etc.; also, apiece of furniture with movable or revolving shelves.
DUMBLEDOR
A bumblebee; also, a cockchafer. [Prov. Eng.]
DUMBLY
In silence; mutely.
DUMBNESS
The quality or state of being dumb; muteness; silence;inability to speak.
DUMDUM BULLET
A kind of manstopping bullet; -- so named from Dumdum, inIndia, where bullets are manufactured for the Indian army.
DUMETOSE
Dumose.
DUMFOUND
To strike dumb; to confuse with astonishment. [Written alsodumbfound.] Spectator.
DUMFOUNDER
To dumfound; to confound. [Written also dumbfounder.]
DUMMADOR
A dumbledor.
DUMMERER
One who feigns dumbness. [Obs.] Burton.
DUMMY
One who plays a merely nominal part in any action; a shamcharacter.
DUMP
A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boysin playing chuck farthing. [Eng.] Smart.
DUMPINESS
The state of being dumpy.
DUMPISH
Dull; stupid; sad; moping; melancholy. " A . . . dumpish andsour life." Lord Herbert.-- Dump"ish*ly, adv.-- Dump"ish*ness, n.
DUMPLE
To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another. [R.]He was a little man, dumpled up together. Sir W. Scott.
DUMPLING
A roundish mass of dough boiled in soup, or as a sort ofpudding; often, a cover of paste inclosing an apple or other fruit,and boiled or baked; as, an apple dumpling.
DUMPY LEVEL
A level having a short telescope (hence its name) rigidly fixedto a table capable only of rotatory movement in a horizontal plane.The telescope is usually an inverting one. It is sometimes called theTroughton level, from the name of the inventor, and a varietyimproved by one Gavatt is known as the Gavatt level.
DUN
A mound or small hill.
DUNCE
One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull orweak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt.I never knew this town without dunces of figure. Swift.
DUNCEDOM
The realm or domain of dunces. [Jocose] Carlyle.
DUNCERY
Dullness; stupidity.
DUNCICAL
Like a dunce; duncish.The most dull and duncical commissioner. Fuller.
DUNCIFY
To make stupid in intellect. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
DUNCISH
Somewhat like a dunce. [R.] -- Dun"cish*ness, n. [R.]
DUNDER
The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation ofrum. [West Indies]The use of dunder in the making of rum answers the purpose of yeastin the fermentation of flour. B. Edwards.
DUNDER-HEADED
Thick-headed; stupid.
DUNDERHEAD
A dunce; a numskull; a blockhead. Beau. & Fl.
DUNDERPATE
See Dunderhead.
DUNE
A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, butoften carried far inland by the prevailing winds. [Written also dun.]Three great rivers, the Rhine, the Meuse, and the Scheldt, haddeposited their slime for ages among the dunes or sand banks heavedup by the ocean around their mouths. Motley.
DUNFISH
Codfish cured in a particular manner, so as to be of a superiorquality.
DUNG
The excrement of an animal. Bacon.
DUNGAREE
A coarse kind of unbleached cotton stuff. [Written alsodungari.] [India]
DUNGEON
A close, dark prison, commondonjon or keep of a castle, thesebeing used as prisons.Down with him even into the deep dungeon. Tyndale.Year after year he lay patiently in a dungeon. Macaulay.
DUNGFORK
A fork for tossing dung.
DUNGMEER
A pit where dung and weeds rot for manure.
DUNGY
Full of dung; filthy; vile; low. Shak.
DUNGYARD
A yard where dung is collected.
DUNKER
One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices aremainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; --called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren,and German Baptists.
DUNLIN
A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina); -- called also churr,dorbie, grass bird, and red-backed sandpiper. It is found both inEurope and America.
DUNNAGE
Fagots, boughs, or loose materials of any kind, laid on thebottom of the hold for the cargo to rest upon to prevent injury bywater, or stowed among casks and other cargo to prevent their motion.
DUNNER
One employed in soliciting the payment of debts.
DUNNISH
Inclined to a dun color. Ray.
DUNNOCK
The hedge sparrow or hedge accentor. [Local, Eng.]
DUNNY
Deaf; stupid.[Prov. Eng.]My old dame Joan is something dunny, and will scarce know how tomanage. Sir W. Scott.
DUNT
A blow. [Obs.] R. of Glouc.
DUNTED
Beaten; hence, blunted. [Obs.]Fencer's swords . . . having the edge dunted. Fuller.
DUNTER
A porpoise. [Scott.] Dunter goose (Zoรถl.) the eider duck. J.Brand.
DUO
A composition for two performers; a duet.
DUODECENNIAL
Consisting of twelve years. [R.] Ash.
DUODECIMAL
Proceeding in computation by twelves; expressed in the scale oftwelves.-- Du`o*dec"i*mal*ly, adv.
DUODECIMFID
Divided into twelve parts.
DUODECIMO
Having twelve leaves to a sheet; as, a duodecimo from, book,leaf, size, etc.
DUODECUPLE
Consisting of twelves. Arbuthnot.
DUODENAL
Of or pertaining to the duodenum; as, duodenal digestion.
DUODENARY
Containing twelve; twelvefold; increasing by twelves;duodecimal.
DUODENUM
The part of the small intestines between the stomach and thejejunum. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive.
DUOGRAPH
A picture printed from two half-tone plates made with thescreen set at different angles, and usually printed in two shades ofthe same color or in black and one tint.
DUOLITERAL
Consisting of two letters only; biliteral. Stuart.
DUOMO
A cathedral. See Dome, 2.Of tower or duomo, sunny sweet. Tennyson.
DUOTONE
Any picture printed in two shades of the same color, asduotypes and duographs are usually printed.
DUOTYPE
A print made from two half-tone plates made from the samenegative, but etched differently.
DUP
To open; as, to dup the door. [Obs.] Shak.
DUPABLE
Capable of being duped.
DUPE
One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull;as, the dupe of a schemer.
DUPER
One who dupes another.
DUPERY
The act or practice of duping. [R.]
DUPION
A double cocoon, made by two silkworms.
DUPLE
Double. Duple ratio (Math.), that in which the antecedent termis double the consequent, as of 2 to 1, 8 to 4, etc.
DUPLEX
Double; twofold. Duplex escapement, a peculiar kind of watchescapement, in which the scape-wheel has two sets of teeth. SeeEscapement.-- Duplex lathe, one for turning off, screwing, and surfacing, bymeans of two cutting tools, on opposite sides of the piece operatedupon.-- Duplex pumping engine, a steam pump in which two steam cylindersare placed side by side, one operating the valves of the other.-- Duplex querela Etym: [L., double complaint] (Eccl. Law), acomplaint in the nature of an appeal from the ordinary to hisimmediate superior, as from a bishop to an archbishop. Mozley & W.-- Duplex telegraphy, a system of telegraphy for sending twomessages over the same wire simultaneously.-- Duplex watch, one with a duplex escapement.
DUPLICATE
Double; twofold. Duplicate proportion or ratio (Math.), theproportion or ratio of squares. Thus, in geometrical proportion, thefirst term to the third is said to be in a duplicate ratio of thefirst to the second, or as its square is to the square of the second.Thus, in 2, 4, 8, 16, the ratio of 2 to 8 is a duplicate of that of 2to 4, or as the square of 2 is to the square of 4.
DUPLICATION
The act or process of dividing by natural growth or spontaneousaction; as, the duplication of cartilage cells. Carpenter.Duplication of the cube (Math.), the operation of finding a cubehaving a volume which is double that of a given cube.
DUPLICATIVE
Having the quality of subdividing into two by natural growth."Duplicative subdivision." Carpenter.
DUPLICATURE
A doubling; a fold, as of a membrane.
DUPPER
See 2d Dubber.
DUR
Major; in the major mode; as, C dur, that is, C major.
DURA
Short form for Dura mater.
DURA MATER
The tough, fibrous membrane, which lines the cavity of theskull and spinal column, and surrounds the brain and spinal cord; --frequently abbreviated to dura.
DURABILITY
The state or quality of being durable; the power ofuninterrupted or long continuance in any condition; the power ofresisting agents or influences which tend to cause changes, decay, ordissolution; lastingness.A Gothic cathedral raises ideas of grandeur in our minds by the size,its height, . . . its antiquity, and its durability. Blair.
DURABLE
Able to endure or continue in a particular condition; lasting;not perishable or changeable; not wearing out or decaying soon;enduring; as, durable cloth; durable happiness.Riches and honor are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness.Prov. viii. 18.An interest which from its object and grounds must be so durable. DeQuincey.
DURABLENESS
Power of lasting, enduring, or resisting; durability.The durableness of the metal that supports it. Addison.
DURABLY
In a lasting manner; with long continuance.
DURAL
Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater.
DURAMEN
The heartwood of an exogenous tree.
DURANCY
Duration. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
DURANT
See Durance, 3.
DURANTE
During; as, durante vita, during life; durante bene placito,during pleasure.
DURATION
The state or quality of lasting; continuance in time; theportion of time during which anything exists.It was proposed that the duration of Parliament should be limited.Macaulay.Soon shall have passed our own human duration. D. Webster.
DURATIVE
Continuing; not completed; implying duration.Its durative tense, which expresses the thought of it as going on. J.Byrne.
DURBAR
An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee;a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor generalof India. [India] [Written also darbar.]
DURE
Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome. [R.]The winter is severe, and life is dure and rude. W. H. Russell.
DUREFUL
Lasting. [Obs.] Spenser.
DURELESS
Not lasting. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
DURENE
A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3)4, offartificial production, with an odor like camphor.
DURESS
The state of compulsion or necessity in which a person isinfluenced, whether by the unlawful restrain of his liberty or byactual or threatened physical violence, to incur a civil liability orto commit an offense.
DURESSOR
One who subjects another to duress Bacon.
DURGA
Same as Doorga.
DURHAM
One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in thecounty of Durham, England. The Durham cattle are noted for theirbeef-producing quality.
DURING
In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as,during life; during the space of a year.
DURIO
A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of theIndian Archipelago. It bears the durian.
DUROMETER
An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially,an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails andthe like.
DUROUS
Hard. [Obs. & R.]
DURRA
A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introducedinto the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- calledalso Indian millet, and Guinea corn. [Written also dhoorra, dhurra,doura, etc.]
DURST
of Dare. See Dare, v. i.
DURUKULI
A small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecustrivirgatus). [Written also douroucouli.]
DURYLIC
Pertaining to, allied to, or derived from, durene; as, durylicacid.
DUSE
A demon or spirit. See Deuce.
DUSK
Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black;dusky.A pathless desert, dusk with horrid shades. Milton.
DUSKEN
To make dusk or obscure. [R.]Not utterly defaced, but only duskened. Nicolls.
DUSKILY
In a dusky manner. Byron.
DUSKINESS
The state of being dusky.
DUSKISH
Somewhat dusky. " Duskish smoke." Spenser.-- Dusk"ish*ly, adv.-- Dusk"ish*ness, n.
DUSKNESS
Duskiness. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.
DUST
Coined money; cash. Down with the dust, deposit the cash; paydown the money. [Slang] "My lord, quoth the king, presently deposityour hundred pounds in gold, or else no going hence all the days ofyour life. . . . The Abbot down with his dust, and glad he escapedso, returned to Reading." Fuller.-- Dust brand (Bot.), a fungous plant (Ustilago Carbo); -- calledalso smut.-- Gold dust, fine particles of gold, such as are obtained in placermining; -- often used as money, being transferred by weight.-- In dust and ashes. See under Ashes.-- To bite the dust. See under Bite, v. t.-- To raise, or kick up, dust, to make a commotion. [Colloq.] -- Tothrow dust in one's eyes, to mislead; to deceive. [Colloq.]
DUST-POINT
An old rural game.With any boy at dust-point they shall play. Peacham (1620).
DUSTBRUSH
A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust fromfurniture.
DUSTER
A blowing machine for separating the flour from the bran.
DUSTINESS
The state of being dusty.
DUSTLESS
Without dust; as a dustless path.
DUSTMAN
One whose employment is to remove dirt and defuse. Gay.
DUSTPAN
A shovel-like utensil for conveying away dust brushed from thefloor.
DUTCH
Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants. Dutch auction.See under Auction.-- Dutch cheese, a small, pound, hard cheese, made from skim milk.-- Dutch clinker, a kind of brick made in Holland. It is yellowish,very hard, and long and narrow in shape.-- Dutch clover (Bot.), common white clover (Trifolium repens), theseed of which was largely imported into England from Holland.-- Dutch concert, a so-called concert in which all the singers singat the same time different songs. [Slang] -- Dutch courage, thecourage of partial intoxication. [Slang] Marryat.-- Dutch door, a door divided into two parts, horizontally, soarranged that the lower part can be shut and fastened, while theupper part remains open.-- Dutch foil, Dutch leaf, or Dutch gold, a kind of brass rich incopper, rolled or beaten into thin sheets, used in Holland toornament toys and paper; -- called also Dutch mineral, Dutch metal,brass foil, and bronze leaf.-- Dutch liquid (Chem.), a thin, colorless, volatile liquid,C2H4Cl2, of a sweetish taste and a pleasant ethereal odor, producedby the union of chlorine and ethylene or olefiant gas; -- called alsoDutch oil. It is so called because discovered (in 1795) by anassociation of four Hollandish chemists. See Ethylene, and Olefiant.-- Dutch oven, a tin screen for baking before an open fire orkitchen range; also, in the United States, a shallow iron kettle forbaking, with a cover to hold burning coals.-- Dutch pink, chalk, or whiting dyed yellow, and used in distemper,and for paper staining. etc. Weale.-- Dutch rush (Bot.), a species of horsetail rush or Equisetum (E.hyemale) having a rough, siliceous surface, and used for scouring andpolishing; -- called also scouring rush, and shave grass. SeeEquisetum.-- Dutch tile, a glazed and painted ornamental tile, formerly muchexported, and used in the jambs of chimneys and the like.
DUTCHMAN
A native, or one of the people, of Holland. Dutchman's breeches(Bot.), a perennial American herb (Dicentra cucullaria), withpeculiar double-spurred flowers. See Illust. of Dicentra.-- Dutchman's laudanum (Bot.), a West Indian passion flower(Passiflora Murucuja); also, its fruit.-- Dutchman's pipe (Bot.), an American twining shrub (AristolochiaSipho). Its flowers have their calyx tubes curved like a tobaccopipe.
DUTIABLE
Subject to the payment of a duty; as dutiable goods. [U.S.]All kinds of dutiable merchandise. Hawthorne.
DUTIED
Subjected to a duty. Ames.
DUTY
The efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine,as measured by work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, thenumber of pounds of water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94lbs. old standard), or by 1 cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs.,United States).
DUUMVIR
One of two Roman officers or magistrates united in the samepublic functions.
DUUMVIRAL
Of or belonging to the duumviri or the duumvirate.
DUUMVIRATE
The union of two men in the same office; or the office,dignity, or government of two men thus associated, as in ancientRome.
DUX
The scholastic name for the theme or subject of a fugue, theanswer being called the comes, or companion.
DUYKERBOK
A small South African antelope (Cephalous mergens); -- calledalso impoon, and deloo.
DUYOUNG
See Dugong.
DVERGR
A dwarf supposed to dwell in rocks and hills and to be skillfulin working metals.
DWALE
The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladonna), having stupefyingqualities.
DWANG
A piece of wood set between two studs, posts, etc., to stiffenand support them.
DWARF
An animal or plant which is much below the ordinary size of itsspecies or kind; especially, a diminutive human being.
DWARFISH
Like a dwarf; below the common stature or size; very small;petty; as, a dwarfish animal, shrub.-- Dwarf"ish*ly, adv.-- Dwarf"ish*ness, n.
DWARFLING
A diminutive dwarf.
DWARFY
Much undersized. [R.] Waterhouse.
DWELL
To inhabit. [R.] Milton.
DWELLER
An inhabitant; a resident; as, a cave dweller. "Dwellers atJerusalem." Acts i. 19.
DWELLING
Habitation; place or house in which a person lives; abode;domicile.Hazor shall be a dwelling for dragons. Jer. xlix. 33.God will deign To visit oft the dwellings of just men. Milton.Philip's dwelling fronted on the street. Tennyson.Dwelling house, a house intended to be occupied as a residence, indistinction from a store, office, or other building.-- Dwelling place, place of residence.
DWELT
of Dwell.
DWINDLE
To diminish; to become less; to shrink; to waste or consumeaway; to become degenerate; to fall away.Weary sennights nine times nine Shall he dwindle, peak and pine.Shak.Religious societies, though begun with excellent intentions, are saidto have dwindled into factious clubs. Swift.
DWINDLEMENT
The act or process of dwindling; a dwindling. [R.] Mrs.Oliphant.
DWINE
To waste away; to pine; to languish. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]Gower.
DYAD
An element, atom, or radical having a valence or combiningpower of two.
DYADIC
Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements. Dyadicarithmetic, the same as binary arithmetic.
DYAKS
; sing. Dyak. (Ethnol.) The aboriginal and most numerousinhabitants of Borneo. They are partially civilized, but retain manybarbarous practices.
DYAS
A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, thereconsisting of two principal groups.
DYE
To stain; to color; to give a new and permanent color to, as bythe application of dyestuffs.Cloth to be dyed of divers colors. Trench.The soul is dyed by its thoughts. Lubbock.To dye in the grain, To dye in the wool (Fig.), to dye firmly; toimbue thoroughly.He might truly be termed a legitimate son of the revenue system dyedin the wool. Hawthorne.
DYEHOUSE
A building in which dyeing is carried on.
DYEING
The process or art of fixing coloring matters permanently anduniformly in the fibers of wool, cotton, etc.
DYER
One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like. Dyer'sbroom, Dyer's rocket, Dyer's weed. See Dyer's broom, under Broom.
DYESTUFF
A material used for dyeing.
DYEWOOD
Any wood from which coloring matter is extracted for dyeing.
DYING
The act of expiring; passage from life to death; loss of life.
DYINGLY
In a dying manner; as if at the point of death. Beau. & Fl.
DYINGNESS
The state of dying or the stimulation of such a state; extremelanguor; languishment. [R.]Tenderness becomes me best, a sort of dyingness; you see thatpicture, Foible, -- a swimmingness in the eyes; yes, I'll look so.Congreve.
DYKE
See Dike. The spelling dyke is restricted by some to thegeological meaning.
DYNACTINOMETER
An instrument for measuring the intensity of the photogenic(light-producing) rays, and computing the power of object glasses.
DYNAM
A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound.See Foot pound. Whewell.
DYNAMETER
An instrument for determining the magnifying power oftelescopes, consisting usually of a doubleimage micrometer applied tothe eye end of a telescope for measuring accurately the diameter ofthe image of the object glass there formed; which measurement,compared with the actual diameter of the glass, gives the magnifyingpower.
DYNAMETRICAL
Pertaining to a dynameter.
DYNAMICALLY
In accordance with the principles of dynamics or moving forces.J. Peile.
DYNAMICS
That department of musical science which relates to, or treatsof, the power of tones.
DYNAMISM
The doctrine of Leibnitz, that all substance involves force.
DYNAMIST
One who accounts for material phenomena by a theory ofdynamics.Those who would resolve matter into centers of force may be said toconstitute the school of dynamists. Ward (Dyn. Sociol. ).
DYNAMITARD
A political dynamiter.
DYNAMITE
An explosive substance consisting of nitroglycerin absorbed bysome inert, porous solid, as infusorial earth, sawdust, etc. It issafer than nitroglycerin, being less liable to explosion frommoderate shocks, or from spontaneous decomposition.
DYNAMITER
One who uses dynamite; esp., one who uses it for thedestruction of life and property.
DYNAMITING
Destroying by dynamite, for political ends.Dynamiting is not the American way. The Century.
DYNAMITISM
The work of dynamiters.
DYNAMIZATION
The act of setting free the dynamic powers of a medicine, as byshaking the bottle containing it.
DYNAMO
A dynamo-electric machine.
DYNAMO-ELECTRIC
Pertaining to the development of electricity, especiallyelectrical currents, by power; producing electricity or electricalcurrents by mechanical power.
DYNAMOGRAPH
A dynamometer to which is attached a device for automaticallyregistering muscular power.
DYNAMOMETER
An apparatus for measuring force or power; especially, musculareffort of men or animals, or the power developed by a motor, or thatrequired to operate machinery.
DYNAMOMETRY
The art or process of measuring forces doing work.
DYNASTA
A tyrant. [Obs.] Milton.
DYNASTIC
Of or relating to a dynasty or line of kings. Motley.
DYNASTICAL
Dynastic.
DYNASTIDAN
One of a group of gigantic, horned beetles, including DynastusNeptunus, and the Hercules beetle (D. Hercules) of tropical America,which grow to be six inches in length.
DYNE
The unit of force, in the C. G. S. (Centimeter Gram Second)system of physical units; that is, the force which, acting on a gramfor a second, generates a velocity of a centimeter per second.
DYS-
An inseparable prefix, fr. the Greek ill, bad, hard, difficult,and the like; cf. the prefixes, Skr. dus-, Goth. tuz-, OHG. zur-, G.zer-, AS. to-, Icel. tor-, Ir. do-.
DYSAESTHESIA
Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch.
DYSCRASIA
An ill habit or state of the constitution; -- formerly regardedas dependent on a morbid condition of the blood and humors.
DYSCRASITE
A mineral consisting of antimony and silver.
DYSCRASY
Dycrasia.Sin is a cause of dycrasies and distempers. Jer. Taylor.
DYSENTERY
A disease attended with inflammation and ulceration of thecolon and rectum, and characterized by griping pains, constant desireto evacuate the bowels, and the discharge of mucus and blood.
DYSGENESIC
Not procreating or breeding freely; as, one race may bedysgenesic with respect to another. Darwin.
DYSGENESIS
A condition of not generating or breeding freely; infertility;a form homogenesis in which the hybrids are sterile among themselves,but are fertile with members of either parent race.
DYSLOGISTIC
Unfavorable; not commendatory; -- opposed to eulogistic.There is no course of conduct for which dyslogistic or eulogisticepithets may be found. J. F. Stephen.The paternity of dyslogistic -- no bantling, but now almost acentenarian -- is adjudged to that genius of common sense, JeremyBentham. Fitzed. Hall.
DYSLUITE
A variety of the zinc spinel or gahnite.
DYSLYSIN
A resinous substance formed in the decomposition of cholic acidof bile; -- so called because it is difficult to solve.
DYSMENORRHEA
Difficult and painful menstruation.
DYSNOMY
Bad legislation; the enactment of bad laws. Cockeram.
DYSODILE
An impure earthy or coaly bitumen, which emits a highly fetidodor when burning.
DYSPEPTIC
A person afflicted with dyspepsia.
DYSPEPTONE
An insoluble albuminous body formed from casein and otherproteid substances by the action of gastric juice. Meissner.
DYSPHORIA
Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness;dissatisfaction; the fidgets.
DYSPNOIC
Affected with shortness of breath; relating to dyspn
DYSPROSIUM
An element of the rare earth-group. Symbol Dy; at. wt., 162.5.
DYSTELEOLOGY
The doctrine of purposelessness; a term applied by Haeckel tothat branch of physiology which treats of rudimentary organs, in viewof their being useless to the life of the organism.To the doctrine of dysteleology, or the denial of final causes, aproof of the real existence of such a thing as instinct mustnecessarily be fatal. Word (Dynamic Sociology).
DYSTOCIA
Difficult delivery pr parturition.
DYSTOME
Cleaving with difficulty.
DYSURIC
Pertaining to, or afflicted with, dysury.
DZIGGETAI
The kiang, a wild horse or wild ass of Thibet (Asinushemionus).
E
E is the third tone of the model diatonic scale. E (E flat) isa tone which is intermediate between D and E.
E-
A Latin prefix meaning out, out of, from; also, without. SeeEx-.
E-LA
Originally, the highest note in the scale of Guido; hence,proverbially, any extravagant saying. "Why, this is above E-la!"Beau. & Fl.
EACHWHERE
Everywhere. [Obs.]The sky eachwhere did show full bright and fair. Spenser.
EADISH
See Eddish.
EAGER
Same as Eagre.
EAGERLY
In an eager manner.
EAGLE
Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of thegenera Aquila and Haliรฆetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength,size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight.The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaรซtus); theimperial eagle of Europe (A. mogilnik or imperialis); the Americanbald eagle (Haliรฆetus leucocephalus); the European sea eagle (H.albicilla); and the great harpy eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). Thefigure of the eagle, as the king of birds, is commonly used as anheraldic emblem, and also for standards and emblematic devices. SeeBald eagle, Harpy, and Golden eagle.
EAGLE-EYED
Sharp-sighted as an eagle. "Inwardly eagle-eyed." Howell.
EAGLE-SIGHTED
Farsighted and strong-sighted; sharp-sighted. Shak.
EAGLE-WINGED
Having the wings of an eagle; swift, or soaring high, like aneagle. Shak.
EAGLESS
A female or hen eagle. [R.] Sherwood.
EAGLESTONE
A concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of awalnut or larger, so called by the ancients, who believed that theeagle transported these stones to her nest to facilitate the layingof her eggs; aรซtites.
EAGLET
A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle.
EAGLEWOOD
A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum.
EAGRASS
See Eddish. [Obs.]
EAGRE
A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height andviolence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonlycalled the bore. See Bore.
EALE
Ale. [Obs.] Shak.
EAME
Uncle. [Obs.] Spenser.
EAN
To bring forth, as young; to yean. "In eaning time." Shak.
EANLING
A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling. Shak.
EAR
To take in with the ears; to hear. [Sportive] "I eared herlanguage." Two Noble Kinsmen.
EAR-BORED
Having the ear perforated.
EAR-MINDED
Thinking chiefly or most readily through, or in terms relatedto, the sense of hearing; specif., thinking words as spoken, as aresult of familiarity with speech or of mental peculiarity; --opposed to eye-minded.
EAR-PIERCER
The earwig.
EAR-SHELL
A flattened marine univalve shell of the genus Haliotis; --called also sea-ear. See Abalone.
EAR-SPLITTING
Deafening; disagreeably loud or shrill; as, ear-splittingstrains.
EARABLE
Arable; tillable. [Archaic]
EARACHE
Ache or pain in the ear.
EARAL
Receiving by the ear. [Obs.] Hewyt.
EARCAP
A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold.
EARCOCKLE
A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contractedgrain, or ear, is filled with minute worms.
EARDROP
A species of primrose. See Auricula.
EARDRUM
The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear.
EARED
Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears.Eared owl (Zoรถl.), an owl having earlike tufts of feathers, as thelong-eared owl, and short-eared owl.-- Eared seal (Zoรถl.), any seal of the family Otariidรฆ, includingthe fur seals and hair seals. See Seal.
EARINESS
Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural.[Written also eiryness.]The sense of eariness, as twilight came on. De Quincey.
EARING
Coming into ear, as corn.
EARL
A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above aviscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte)in France, and graf in Germany. Hence the wife of an earl is stillcalled countess. See Count.
EARL MARSHAL
An officer of state in England who marshals and orders allgreat ceremonials, takes cognizance of matters relating to honor,arms, and pedigree, and directs the proclamation of peace and war.The court of chivalry was formerly under his jurisdiction, and he isstill the head of the herald's office or college of arms.
EARLAP
The lobe of the ear.
EARLDORMAN
Alderman. [Obs.]
EARLDUCK
The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator).
EARLES PENNY
Earnest money. Same as Arles penny. [Obs.]
EARLESS
Without ears; hence, deaf or unwilling to hear. Pope.
EARLET
An earring. [Obs.]The Ismaelites were accustomed to wear golden earlets. Judg. viii. 24(Douay version).
EARLINESS
The state of being early or forward; promptness.
EARLOCK
A lock or curl of hair near the ear; a lovelock. See Lovelock.
EARLY
Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early.Those that me early shall find me. Prov. viii. 17.You must wake and call me early. Tennyson.
EARMARK
To mark, as sheep, by cropping or slitting the ear.
EARN
See Ern, n. Sir W. Scott.
EARNEST
Seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness;intentness.Take heed that this jest do not one day turn to earnest. Sir P.Sidney.And given in earnest what I begged in jest. Shak.In earnest, serious; seriously; not in jest; earnestly.
EARNESTFUL
Serious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EARNESTLY
In an earnest manner.
EARNESTNESS
The state or quality of being earnest; intentness; anxiety.An honest earnestness in the young man's manner. W. Irving.
EARNFUL
Full of anxiety or yearning. [Obs.] P. Fletcher.
EARNING
That which is earned; wages gained by work or services; moneyearned; -- used commonly in the plural.As to the common people, their stock is in their persons and in theirearnings. Burke.
EARPICK
An instrument for removing wax from the ear.
EARREACH
Earshot. Marston.
EARRING
An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of theear, with or without a pendant.
EARSH
See Arrish.
EARSHOT
Reach of the ear; distance at which words may be heard. Dryden.
EARSHRIFT
A nickname for auricular confession; shrift. [Obs.] Cartwright.
EARSORE
An annoyance to the ear. [R.]The perpetual jangling of the chimes . . . is no small earsore Sir T.Browne.
EARST
See Erst. [Obs.] Spenser.
EARTH
To burrow. Tickell.
EARTH FLAX
A variety of asbestus. See Amianthus.
EARTH SHINE
See Earth light, under Earth.
EARTH-TONGUE
A fungus of the genus Geoglossum.
EARTHBAG
A bag filled with earth, used commonly to raise or repair aparapet.
EARTHBANK
A bank or mound of earth.
EARTHBOARD
The part of a plow, or other implement, that turns over theearth; the moldboard.
EARTHBRED
Low; grovelling; vulgar.
EARTHDIN
An earthquake. [Obs.]
EARTHDRAKE
A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; adragon. W. Spalding.
EARTHEN
Made of earth; made of burnt or baked clay, or other likesubstances; as, an earthen vessel or pipe.
EARTHEN-HEARTED
Hard-hearted; sordid; gross. [Poetic] Lowell.
EARTHENWARE
Vessels and other utensils, ornaments, or the like, made ofbaked clay. See Crockery, Pottery, Stoneware, and Porcelain.
EARTHFORK
A pronged fork for turning up the earth.
EARTHINESS
The quality or state of being earthy, or of containing earth;hence, grossness.
EARTHLIGHT
The sunlight reflected from the earth to the moon, by which wesee faintly, when the moon is near the sun (either before or afternew moon), that part of the moon's disk unillumined by directsunlight, or "the old moon in the arms of the new."
EARTHLINESS
The quality or state of being earthly; worldliness; grossness;perishableness.
EARTHLING
An inhabitant of the earth; a mortal.Earthings oft her deemed a deity. Drummond.
EARTHLY
In the manner of the earth or its people; worldly.Took counsel from his guiding eyes To make this wisdom earthly wise.Emerson.
EARTHLY-MINDED
Having a mind devoted to earthly things; worldly-minded; --opposed to spiritual-minded.-- Earth"ly-mind`ed*ness, n.
EARTHMAD
The earthworm. [Obs.]The earthmads and all the sorts of worms . . . are without eyes.Holland.
EARTHNUT
A name given to various roots, tubers, or pods grown under oron the ground; as to:(a) The esculent tubers of the umbelliferous plants Bunium flexuosumand Carum Bulbocastanum.(b) The peanut. See Peanut.
EARTHPEA
A species of pea (Amphicarpรฆa monoica). It is a climbingleguminous plant, with hairy underground pods.
EARTHQUAKE
A shaking, trembling, or concussion of the earth, due tosubterranean causes, often accompanied by a rumbling noise. The waveof shock sometimes traverses half a hemisphere, destroying cities andmany thousand lives; -- called also earthdin, earthquave, andearthshock. Earthquake alarm, a bell signal constructed to operate onthe theory that a few seconds before the occurrence of an earthquakethe magnet temporarily loses its power.
EARTHQUAVE
An earthquake.
EARTHSHOCK
An earthquake.
EARTHSTAR
A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outercoating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms aball containing the dustlike spores.
EARTHWORK
Any construction, whether a temporary breastwork or permanentfortification, for attack or defense, the material of which ischiefly earth.
EARTHWORM
Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found indamp soil. One of the largest and most abundant species in Europe andAmerica is L. terrestris; many others are known; -- called alsoangleworm and dewworm.
EARTHY
Without luster, or dull and roughish to the touch; as, anearthy fracture.
EARWAX
See Cerumen.
EARWIG
Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belongingto the order Euplexoptera.
EARWITNESS
A witness by means of his ears; one who is within hearing anddoes hear; a hearer. Fuller.
EASEFUL
Full of ease; suitable for affording ease or rest; quiet;comfortable; restful. Shak.-- Ease"ful*ly, adv.-- Ease"ful*ness, n.
EASEL
A frame (commonly) of wood serving to hold a canvas upright, ornearly upright, for the painter's convenience or for exhibition.Easel picture, Easel piece, a painting of moderate size such as ismade while resting on an easel, as distinguished from a painting on awall or ceiling.
EASELESS
Without ease. Donne.
EASEMENT
A liberty, privilege, or advantage, which one proprietor has inthe estate of another proprietor, distinct from the ownership of thesoil, as a way, water course, etc. It is a species of what the civillaw calls servitude. Kent.
EAST
Formerly, the part of the United States east of the AlleghanyMountains, esp. the Eastern, or New England, States; now, commonly,the whole region east of the Mississippi River, esp. that which isnorth of Maryland and the Ohio River; -- usually with the definitearticle; as, the commerce of the East is not independent of theagriculture of the West. East by north, East by south, according tothe notation of the mariner's compass, that point which lies 11 --East-northeast, East-southeast, that which lie 22Illust. of Compass.
EAST INDIAN
Belonging to, or relating to, the East Indies.-- n.
EAST-INSULAR
Relating to the Eastern Islands; East Indian. [R.] Ogilvie.
EASTER
To veer to the east; -- said of the wind. Russell.
EASTERLING
The smew.
EASTERLY
Toward, or in the direction of, the east.
EASTERN CHURCH
That portion of the Christian church which prevails in thecountries once comprised in the Eastern Roman Empire and thecountries converted to Christianity by missionaries from them. Itsfull official title is The Orthodox Catholic Apostolic EasternChurch. It became estranged from the Western, or Roman, Church overthe question of papal supremacy and the doctrine of the filioque, anda separation, begun in the latter part of the 9th century, becamefinal in 1054. The Eastern Church consists of twelve (thirteen if theBulgarian Church be included) mutually independent churches(including among these the Hellenic Church, or Church of Greece, andthe Russian Church), using the vernacular (or some ancient form ofit) in divine service and varying in many points of detail, butstanding in full communion with each other and united as equals in agreat federation. The highest five authorities are the patriarch ofConstantinople, or ecumenical patriarch (whose position is not one ofsupremacy, but of precedence), the patriarch of Alexandria, thepatriarch of Jerusalem, the patriarch of Antioch, and the Holy Synodof Russia. The Eastern Church accepts the first seven ecumenicalcouncils (and is hence styled only schismatic, not heretical, by theRoman Catholic Church), has as its creed the Niceno-Constantinopolitan (without the later addition of the filioque,which, with the doctrine it represents, the church decisivelyrejects), baptizes infants with trine immersion, makes confirmationfollow immediately upon baptism, administers the Communion in bothkinds (using leavened bread) and to infants as well as adults,permits its secular clergy to marry before ordination and to keeptheir wives afterward, but not to marry a second time, selects itsbishops from the monastic clergy only, recognizes the offices ofbishop, priest, and deacon as the three necessary degrees of orders,venerates relics and icons, and has an elaborate ritual.
EASTERNMOST
Most eastern.
EASTING
The distance measured toward the east between two meridiansdrawn through the extremities of a course; distance of departureeastward made by a vessel.
EASY
Not straitened as to money matters; as, the market is easy; --opposed to tight. Honors are easy (Card Playing), said when each sidehas an equal number of honors, in which case they are not counted aspoints.
EASY-CHAIR
An armichair for ease or repose. "Laugh . . . in Rabelais'easy-chair." Pope.
EASY-GOING
Moving easily; hence, mild-tempered; ease-loving; inactive.
EATABLE
Capable of being eaten; fit to be eaten; proper for food;esculent; edible.-- n.
EATAGE
Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that ofaftermath.
EATER
One who, or that which, eats.
EATH
Easy or easily. [Obs.] "Eath to move with plaints." Fairfax.
EAU DE COLOGNE
Same as Cologne.
EAU DE VIE
French name for brandy. Cf. Aqua vitรฆ, under Aqua. Bescherelle.
EAU FORTE
An etching or a print from an etched plate.
EAVEDROP
A drop from the eaves; eavesdrop. [R.] Tennyson.
EAVES
The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, whichoverhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof.
EAVESDROP
To stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of ahouse, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, tolisten secretly to what is said in private.To eavesdrop in disguises. Milton.
EAVESDROPPER
One who stands under the eaves, or near the window or door of ahouse, to listen; hence, a secret listener.
EAVESDROPPING
The habit of lurking about dwelling houses, and other placeswhere persons meet fro private intercourse, secretly listening towhat is said, and then tattling it abroad. The offense is indictableat common law. Wharton.
EBB
The European bunting.
EBB TIDE
The reflux of tide water; the retiring tide; -- opposed toflood tide.
EBIONITE
One of a sect of heretics, in the first centuries of thechurch, whose doctrine was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity.They denied the divinity of Christ, regarding him as an inspiredmessenger, and rejected much of the New Testament.
EBIONITISM
The system or doctrine of the Ebionites.
EBLANIN
See Pyroxanthin.
EBLIS
The prince of the evil spirits; Satan. [Written also Eblees.]
EBON
Ebony. [Poetic] "Framed of ebon and ivory." Sir W. Scott.
EBONIST
One who works in ebony.
EBONITE
A hard, black variety of vulcanite. It may be cut and polished,and is used for many small articles, as combs and buttons, and forinsulating material in electric apparatus.
EBONIZE
To make black, or stain black, in imitation of ebony; as, toebonize wood.
EBONY
A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polishor gloss. The usual color is black, but it also occurs red or green.
EBRACTEATE
Without bracts.
EBRACTEOLATE
Without bracteoles, or little bracts; -- said of a pedicel orflower stalk.
EBRAUKE
Hebrew. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EBRIETY
Drunkenness; intoxication by spirituous liquors; inebriety."Ruinous ebriety." Cowper.
EBRILLADE
A bridle check; a jerk of one rein, given to a horse when herefuses to turn.
EBRIOSITY
Addiction to drink; habitual drunkenness.
EBRIOUS
Inclined to drink to excess; intoxicated; tipsy. [R.] M.Collins.
EBULLIATE
To boil or bubble up. [Obs.] Prynne.
EBULLIENT
Boiling up or over; hence, manifesting exhilaration orexcitement, as of feeling; effervescing. "Ebullient with subtlety."De Quincey.The ebullient enthusiasm of the French. Carlyle.
EBULLIOSCOPE
An instrument for observing the boiling point of liquids,especially for determining the alcoholic strength of a mixture by thetemperature at which it boils.
EBURIN
A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; --used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals,etc. Knight.
EBURNATION
A condition of bone cartilage occurring in certain diseases ofthese tissues, in which they acquire an unnatural density, and cometo resemble ivory.
EBURNEAN
Made of or relating to ivory.
EBURNIFICATION
The conversion of certain substances into others which have theappearance or characteristics of ivory.
EBURNINE
Of or pertaining to ivory. "[She] read from tablet eburnine."Sir W. Scott.
ECARDINES
An order of Brachiopoda; the Lyopomata. See Brachiopoda.
ECARTE
A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which theplayers may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive othersfrom the pack.
ECAUDATE
Without a tail or spur.
ECBALLIUM
A genus of cucurbitaceous plants consisting of the singlespecies Ecballium agreste (or Elaterium), the squirting cucumber. Itsfruit, when ripe, bursts and violently ejects its seeds, togetherwith a mucilaginous juice, from which elaterium, a powerful catharticmedicine, is prepared.
ECBASIS
A figure in which the orator treats of things according totheir events consequences.
ECBATIC
Denoting a mere result or consequence, as distinguished fromtelic, which denotes intention or purpose; thus the phrase so that itwas fulfilled," is ecbatic; if rendered "in order that it might be."etc., is telic.
ECBOLE
A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his ownwords.
ECBOLIC
A drug, as ergot, which by exciting uterine contractionspromotes the expulsion of the contents of the uterus.
ECBOLINE
An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- sonamed from its power of producing abortion.
ECCALEOBION
A contrivance for hatching eggs by artificial heat.
ECCE HOMO
A picture which represents the Savior as given up to the peopleby Pilate, and wearing a crown of thorns.
ECCENTRIC
Pertaining to an eccentric; as, the eccentric rod in a steamengine.
ECCENTRICAL
See Eccentric.
ECCENTRICALLY
In an eccentric manner.Drove eccentrically here and there. Lew Wallace.
ECCENTRICITY
The ratio of the distance between the center and the focus ofan ellipse or hyperbola to its semi-transverse axis.
ECCHYMOSE
To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion ofblood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, theparts were much ecchymosed.
ECCHYMOSIS
A livid or black and blue spot, produced by the extravasationor effusion of blood into the areolar tissue from a contusion.
ECCHYMOTIC
Pertaining to ecchymosis.
ECCLE
The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall,yaffle. [Prov. Eng.]
ECCLESIA
The public legislative assembly of the Athenians.
ECCLESIAL
Ecclesiastical. [Obs.] Milton.
ECCLESIARCH
An official of the Eastern Church, resembling a sacrist in theWestern Church.
ECCLESIASTES
One of the canonical books of the Old Testament.
ECCLESIASTIC
Of or pertaining to the church. See Ecclesiastical."Ecclesiastic government." Swift.
ECCLESIASTICAL
Of or pertaining to the church; relating to the organization orgovernment of the church; not secular; as, ecclesiastical affairs orhistory; ecclesiastical courts.Every circumstance of ecclesiastical order and discipline was anabomination. Cowper.Ecclesiastical commissioners for England, a permanent commissionestablished by Parliament in 1836, to consider and report upon theaffairs of the Established Church.-- Ecclesiastical courts, courts for maintaining the discipline ofthe Established Church; -- called also Christian courts. [Eng.] --Ecclesiastical law, a combination of civil and canon law asadministered in ecclesiastical courts. [Eng.] -- Ecclesiastical modes(Mus.), the church modes, or the scales anciently used.-- Ecclesiastical States, the territory formerly subject to the Popeof Rome as its temporal ruler; -- called also States of the Church.
ECCLESIASTICALLY
In an ecclesiastical manner; according ecclesiastical rules.
ECCLESIASTICISM
Strong attachment to ecclesiastical usages, forms, etc.
ECCLESIASTICUS
A book of the Apocrypha.
ECCLESIOLOGICAL
Belonging to ecclesiology.
ECCLESIOLOGIST
One versed in ecclesiology.
ECCLESIOLOGY
The science or theory of church building and decoration.
ECCRITIC
A remedy which promotes discharges, as an emetic, or acathartic.
ECDERON
See Ecteron.-- Ec`der*on"ic, a.
ECDYSIS
The act of shedding, or casting off, an outer cuticular layer,as in the case of serpents, lobsters, etc.; a coming out; as, theecdysis of the pupa from its shell; exuviation.
ECGONINE
A colorless, crystalline, nitrogenous base, obtained by thedecomposition of cocaine.
ECHAUGUETTE
A small chamber or place of protection for a sentinel, usuallyin the form of a projecting turret, or the like. See Castle.
ECHE
Each. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ECHELON
An arrangement of a body of troops when its divisions are drawnup in parallel lines each to the right or the left of the one inadvance of it, like the steps of a ladder in position for climbing.Also used adjectively; as, echelon distance. Upton (Tactics).
ECHIDNA
A monster, half maid and half serpent.
ECHIDNINE
The clear, viscid fluid secreted by the poison glands ofcertain serpents; also, a nitrogenous base contained in this, andsupposed to be the active poisonous principle of the virus. Brande &C.
ECHINID
Same as Echinoid.
ECHINIDAN
One the Echinoidea.
ECHINITAL
Of, or like, an echinite.
ECHINITE
A fossil echinoid.
ECHINOCOCCUS
A parasite of man and of many domestic and wild animals,forming compound cysts or tumors (called hydatid cysts) in variousorgans, but especially in the liver and lungs, which often causedeath. It is the larval stage of the Tรฆnia echinococcus, a smalltapeworm peculiar to the dog.
ECHINODERM
One of the Echinodermata.
ECHINODERMAL
Relating or belonging to the echinoderms.
ECHINODERMATA
One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom. By manywriters it was formerly included in the Radiata. [Written alsoEchinoderma.]
ECHINODERMATOUS
Relating to Echinodermata; echinodermal.
ECHINOID
Of or pertaining to the Echinoidea.-- n.
ECHINOIDEA
The class Echinodermata which includes the sea urchins. Theyhave a calcareous, usually more or less spheroidal or disk-shaped,composed of many united plates, and covered with movable spines. SeeSpatangoid, Clypeastroid. [Written also Echinidea, and Echinoida.]
ECHINOZOA
The Echinodermata.
ECHINULATE
Set with small spines or prickles.
ECHINUS
A hedgehog.
ECHIUROIDEA
A division of Annelida which includes the genus Echiurus andallies. They are often classed among the Gephyrea, and called thearmed Gephyreans.
ECHO
A nymph, the daughter of Air and Earth, who, for love ofNarcissus, pined away until nothing was left of her but her voice.Compelled me to awake the courteous Echo To give me answer from hermossy couch. Milton.Echo organ (Mus.), a set organ pipes inclosed in a box so as toproduce a soft, distant effect; -- generally superseded by the swell.-- Echo stop (Mus.), a stop upon a harpsichord contrived forproducing the soft effect of distant sound.-- To applaud to the echo, to give loud and continuous applause. M.Arnold.I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again.Shak.
ECHOER
One who, or that which, echoes.
ECHOLESS
Without echo or response.
ECHOMETER
A graduated scale for measuring the duration of sounds, anddetermining their different, and the relation of their intervals. J.J. Rousseau.
ECHOMETRY
Each one. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ECHOPATHY
A morbid condition characterized by automatic and purposelessrepetition of words or imitation of actions.
ECHOSCOPE
An instrument for intensifying sounds produced by percussion ofthe thorax. Knight.
ECLAIR
A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream.
ECLAIRCISE
To make clear; to clear up what is obscure or not understood;to explain.
ECLAIRCISSEMENT
The clearing up of anything which is obscure or not easilyunderstood; an explanation.The eclaircissement ended in the discovery of the informer.Clarendon.
ECLAMPSIA
A fancied perception of flashes of light, a symptom ofepilepsy; hence, epilepsy itself; convulsions.
ECLAMPSY
Same as Eclampsia.
ECLECTIC
One who follows an eclectic method.
ECLECTICALLY
In an eclectic manner; by an eclectic method.
ECLECTICISM
Theory or practice of an eclectic.
ECLEGM
A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups. John Quincy.
ECLIPSE
An interception or obscuration of the light of the sun, moon,or other luminous body, by the intervention of some other body,either between it and the eye, or between the luminous body and thatilluminated by it. A lunar eclipse is caused by the moon passingthrough the earth's shadow; a solar eclipse, by the moon comingbetween the sun and the observer. A satellite is eclipsed by enteringthe shadow of its primary. The obscuration of a planet or star by themoon or a planet, though of the nature of an eclipse, is called anoccultation. The eclipse of a small portion of the sun by Mercury orVenus is called a transit of the planet.
ECLIPTIC
A great circle of the celestial sphere, making an angle withthe equinoctial of about 23ยบ 28'. It is the apparent path of the sun,or the real path of the earth as seen from the sun.
ECLOGITE
A rock consisting of granular red garnet, light greensmaragdite, and common hornblende; -- so called in reference to itsbeauty.
ECLOGUE
A pastoral poem, in which shepherds are introduced conversingwith each other; a bucolic; an idyl; as, the Ecloques of Virgil, fromwhich the modern usage of the word has been established.
ECONOMICALLY
With economy; with careful management; with prudence inexpenditure.
ECONOMIZATION
The act or practice of using to the best effect. [R.] H.Spenser.
ECONOMIZE
To manage with economy; to use with prudence; to expend withfrugality; as, to economize one's income. [Written also economise.]Expenses in the city were to be economized. Jowett (Thucyd. ).Calculating how to economize time. W. Irving.
ECORCHE
A manikin, or image, representing an animal, especially man,with the skin removed so that the muscles are exposed for purposes ofstudy.
ECOSSAISE
A dancing tune in the Scotch style.
ECOSTATE
Having no ribs or nerves; -- said of a leaf.
ECOUTE
One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis. Theyserve to annoy the enemy's miners.
ECPHASIS
An explicit declaration.
ECPHONEMA
A breaking out with some interjectional particle.
ECPHONEME
A mark (!) used to indicate an exclamation. G. Brown.
ECPHONESIS
An animated or passionate exclamation.The feelings by the ecphonesis are very various. Gibbs.
ECPHRACTIC
Serving to dissolve or attenuate viscid matter, and so toremove obstructions; deobstruent.-- n.
ECRASEMENT
The operation performed with an รฉcraseur.
ECRASEUR
An instrument intended to replace the knife in many operations,the parts operated on being severed by the crushing effect producedby the gradual tightening of a steel chain, so that hemorrhage rarelyfollows.
ECRU
Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk,linen, or the like.
ECSTASY
A state which consists in total suspension of sensibility, ofvoluntary motion, and largely of mental power. The body is erect andinflexible; the pulsation and breathing are not affected. Mayne.
ECSTATIC
An enthusiast. [R.] Gauden.
ECSTATICALLY
Rapturously; ravishingly.
ECTAD
Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad. B. G.Wilder.
ECTAL
Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposedto ental. B. G. Wilder.
ECTASIA
A dilatation of a hollow organ or of a canal.
ECTASIS
The lengthening of a syllable from short to long.
ECTENTAL
Relating to, or connected with, the two primitive germ layers,the ectoderm and ectoderm; as, the "ectental line" or line ofjuncture of the two layers in the segmentation of the ovum. C. S.Minot.
ECTERON
The external layer of the skin and mucous membranes;epithelium; ecderon.-- Ec`ter*on"ic, a.
ECTETHMOID
External to the ethmoid; prefrontal.
ECTHLIPSIS
The elision of a final m, with the preceding vowel, before aword beginning with a vowel.
ECTHOREUM
The slender, hollow thread of a nettling cell or cnida. SeeNettling cell. [Written also ecthorรฆum.]
ECTHYMA
A cutaneous eruption, consisting of large, round pustules, uponan indurated and inflamed base. Dunglison.
ECTO-
See Ect-.
ECTOBRONCHIUM
One of the dorsal branches of the main bronchi in the lungs ofbirds.
ECTOCYST
The outside covering of the Bryozoa.
ECTODERM
Of or relating to the ectoderm.
ECTOLECITHAL
Having the food yolk, at the commencement of segmentation, in aperipheral position, and the cleavage process confined to the centerof the egg; as, ectolecithal ova.
ECTOMERE
The more transparent cells, which finally become external, inmany segmenting ova, as those of mammals.
ECTOPARASITE
Any parasite which lives on the exterior of animals; -- opposedto endoparasite.-- Ec`to*par`a*sit"ic, a.
ECTOPIA
A morbid displacement of parts, especially such as iscongenial; as, ectopia of the heart, or of the bladder.
ECTOPIC
Out of place; congenitally displaced; as, an ectopic organ.
ECTOPLASTIC
Pertaining to, or composed of, ectoplasm.
ECTOPROCTA
An order of Bryozoa in which the anus lies outside the circleof tentacles.
ECTOPY
Same as Ectopia.
ECTORGANISM
An external parasitic organism.
ECTOSARC
The semisolid external layer of protoplasm in some unicellularorganisms, as the amoeba; ectoplasm; exoplasm.
ECTOSTEAL
Of or pertaining to ectostosis; as, ectosteal ossification.
ECTOSTOSIS
A process of bone formation in which ossification takes placein the perichondrium and either surrounds or gradually replaces thecartilage.
ECTOZOIC
See Epizoic.
ECTROPION
An unnatural eversion of the eyelids.
ECTROPIUM
Same as Ectropion.
ECTROTIC
Having a tendency to prevent the development of anything,especially of a disease.
ECTYPAL
Copied, reproduced as a molding or cast, in contradistinctionfrom the original model.
ECTYPOGRAPHY
A method of etching in which the design upon the plate isproduced in relief.
ECURIE
A stable.
ECZEMA
An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by thepresence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, andthe discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leavingthe skin covered with crusts; -- called also tetter, milk crust, andsalt rheum.
ECZEMATOUS
Pertaining to eczema; having the characteristic of eczema.
EDACIOUS
Given to eating; voracious; devouring.Swallowed in the depths of edacious Time. Carlyle.-- E*da"cious*ly, adv.-- E*da"cious*ness, n.
EDACITY
Greediness; voracity; ravenousness; rapacity. Bacon.
EDDA
The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinaviantribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas(legends, myths) of the old northern gods and heroes.
EDDER
An adder or serpent. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
EDDISH
Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish. [Eng.]
EDDOES
The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro.
EDDY
To move as an eddy, or as in an eddy; to move in a circle.Eddying round and round they sink. Wordsworth.
EDDY CURRENT
An induced electric current circulating wholly within a mass ofmetal; -- called also Foucault current.
EDDY KITE
A quadrilateral, tailless kite, with convex surfaces exposed tothe wind. This kite was extensively used by Eddy in his famousmeteorological experiments. It is now generally superseded by the boxkite.
EDELWEISS
A little, perennial, white, woolly plant (Leontopodiumalpinum), growing at high elevations in the Alps.
EDEMA
Same as oedema.
EDEN
The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightfulregion or residence.
EDENIC
Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic. "Edenic joys." Mrs.Browning.
EDENITE
A variety of amphibole. See Amphibole.
EDENIZED
Admitted to a state of paradisaic happiness. [R.] Davies (Wit'sPilgr. ).
EDENTAL
See Edentate, a.-- n. (Zoรถl.)
EDENTALOUS
See Edentate, a.
EDENTATA
An order of mammals including the armadillos, sloths, andanteaters; -- called also Bruta. The incisor teeth are rarelydeveloped, and in some groups all the teeth are lacking.
EDENTATE
Belonging to the Edentata.
EDENTATED
Same as Edentate, a.
EDENTATION
A depriving of teeth. [R.] Cockeram.
EDENTULOUS
Toothless.
EDGEBONE
Same as Aitchbone.
EDGELESS
Without an edge; not sharp; blunt; obtuse; as, an edgelesssword or weapon.
EDGELONG
In the direction of the edge. [Obs.]Three hundred thousand pieces have you stuck Edgelong into theground. B. Jonson.
EDGESHOT
Having an edge planed, -- said of a board. Knight.
EDGINGLY
Gradually; gingerly. [R.]
EDGY
Having some of the forms, such as drapery or the like, toosharply defined. "An edgy style of sculpture." Hazlitt.
EDH
The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter edh, capital form th in asimilar word: oedher, other, dรดedh, doth." March.
EDIBILITY
Suitableness for being eaten; edibleness.
EDIBLE
Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes.Bacon.-- n.
EDIBLENESS
Suitableness for being eaten.
EDICT
A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; theproclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by thevery act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Romanemperors; the edicts of the French monarch.It stands as an edict in destiny. Shak.Edict of Nantes (French Hist.), an edict issued by Henry IV. (A. D.1598), giving toleration to Protestants. Its revocation by Louis XIV.(A. D. 1685) was followed by terrible persecutions and theexpatriation of thousands of French Protestants.
EDICTAL
Relating to, or consisting of, edicts; as, the Roman edictallaw.
EDIFICANT
Building; constructing. [R.] Dugard.
EDIFICATORY
Tending to edification. Bp. Hall.
EDIFICE
A building; a structure; an architectural fabric; -- chieflyapplied to elegant houses, and other large buildings; as, a palace, achurch, a statehouse.
EDIFICIAL
Pertaining to an edifice; structural.
EDIFY
To improve. [R.] Swift.
EDIFYING
Instructing; improving; as, an edifying conversation.-- Ed"i*fy`ing*ly, adv.-- Ed"i*fy`ing*ness, n.
EDILE
See รdile.
EDILESHIP
The office of รฆdile. T. Arnold.
EDINGTONITE
A grayish white zeolitic mineral, in tetragonal crystals. It isa hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta.
EDIT
To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare forpublication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, forpublication; as, to edit a newspaper.Philosophical treatises which have never been edited. Enfield.
EDITION DE LUXE
See Luxe.
EDITIONER
An editor. [Obs.]
EDITOR
One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends,revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., forpublication.
EDITORIAL
Of or pertaining to an editor; written or sanctioned by aneditor; as, editorial labors; editorial remarks. editorial content
EDITORIALLY
In the manner or character of an editor or of an editorialarticle.
EDITORSHIP
The office or charge of an editor; care and superintendence ofa publication.
EDITRESS
A female editor.
EDITUATE
To guard as a churchwarden does. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
EDOMITE
One of the descendants of Esau or Edom, the brother of Jacob;an Idumean.
EDRIOPHTHALMA
A group of Crustacea in which the eyes are without stalks; theArthrostraca. [Written also Edriophthalmata.]
EDRIOPHTHALMOUS
Pertaining to the Edriophthalma.
EDUCABILITY
Capability of being educated.
EDUCABLE
Capable of being educated. "Men are educable." M. Arnold.
EDUCATE
To bring as, to educate a child; to educate the eye or thetaste.
EDUCATED
Formed or developed by education; as, an educated man.
EDUCATION
The act or process of educating; the result of educating, asdetermined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character,acquired; also, the act or process of training by a prescribed orcustomary course of study or discipline; as, an education for the baror the pulpit; he has finished his education.To prepare us for complete living is the function which education hasto discharge. H. Spenser.
EDUCATIONAL
Of or pertaining to education. "His educational establishment."J. H. Newman.
EDUCATIONIST
One who is versed in the theories of, or who advocates andpromotes, education.
EDUCATIVE
Tending to educate; that gives education; as, an educativeprocess; an educative experience.
EDUCATOR
One who educates; a teacher.
EDUCE
To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce againstcounter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe aform from matter.The eternal art educing good from ill. Pope.They want to educe and cultivate what is best and noblest inthemselves. M. Arnold.
EDUCIBLE
Capable of being educed.
EDUCT
That which is educed, as by analysis. Sir W. Hamilton.
EDUCTION
The act of drawing out or bringing into view. Eduction pipe,and Eduction port. See Exhaust pipe and Exhaust port, under Exhaust,a.
EDUCTIVE
Tending to draw out; extractive.
EDUCTOR
One who, or that which, brings forth, elicits, or extracts.Stimulus must be called an eductor of vital ether. E. Darwin.
EDULCORANT
Having a tendency to purify or to sweeten by removing orcorrecting acidity and acrimony.
EDULCORATE
To free from acids, salts, or other soluble substances, bywashing; to purify. [R.]
EDULCORATION
The act of freeing from acids or any soluble substances, byaffusions of water. [R.] Ure.
EDULCORATIVE
Tending to
EDULCORATOR
A contrivance used to supply small quantities of sweetenedliquid, water, etc., to any mixture, or to test tubes, etc.; adropping bottle.
EDULIOUS
Edible. [Obs.] "Edulious pulses." Sir T. Browne.
EEL
An elongated fish of many genera and species. The common eelsof Europe and America belong to the genus Anguilla. The electricaleel is a species of Gymnotus. The so called vinegar eel is a minutenematode worm. See Conger eel, Electric eel, and Gymnotus.
EEL-MOTHER
The eelpout.
EELBUCK
An eelpot or eel basket.
EELFARE
A brood of eels. [Prov. Eng.]
EELGRASS
A plant (Zostera marina), with very long and narrow leaves,growing abundantly in shallow bays along the North Atlantic coast.
EELPOT
A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels;an eelbuck.
EELSPEAR
A spear with barbed forks for spearing eels.
EEN
The old plural of Eye.And eke with fatness swollen were his een. Spenser.
EERILY
In a strange, unearthly way.
EERISOME
Causing fear; eerie. [Scot.]
EET
of Eat. Chaucer.
EFFABLE
Capable of being uttered or explained; utterable. Barrow.
EFFACEABLE
Capable of being effaced.
EFFACEMENT
The act if effacing; also, the result of the act.
EFFASCINATE
To charm; to bewitch. [Obs.] Heywood.
EFFASCINATION
A charming; state of being bewitched or deluded. [Obs.]
EFFECT
Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embracereal as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from thetown with their effects. For effect, for an exaggerated impression orexcitement.-- In effect, in fact; in substance. See 8, above.-- Of no effect, Of none effect, To no effect, or Without effect,destitute of results, validity, force, and the like; vain; fruitless."Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition." Markvii. 13. "All my study be to no effect." Shak.-- To give effect to, to make valid; to carry out in practice; topush to its results.-- To take effect, to become operative, to accomplish aims. Shak.
EFFECTER
One who effects.
EFFECTIBLE
Capable of being done or achieved; practicable; feasible. SirT. Browne.
EFFECTION
Creation; a doing. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
EFFECTIVE
Having the power to produce an effect or effects; producing adecided or decisive effect; efficient; serviceable; operative; as, aneffective force, remedy, speech; the effective men in a regiment.They are not effective of anything, nor leave no work behind them.Bacon.Whosoever is an effective, real cause of doing his heighbor wrong, iscriminal. Jer. Taylor.
EFFECTIVELY
With effect; powerfully; completely; thoroughly.
EFFECTIVENESS
The quality of being effective.
EFFECTLESS
Without effect or advantage; useless; bootless. Shak.-- Ef*fect"less*ly, adv.
EFFECTOR
An effecter. Derham.
EFFECTUAL
Producing, or having adequate power or force to produce, anintended effect; adequate; efficient; operative; decisive. Shak.Effectual steps for the suppression of the rebellion. Macaulay.Effectual calling (Theol.), a doctrine concerning the work of theHoly Spirit in producing conviction of sin and acceptance ofsalvation by Christ, -- one of the five points of Calvinism. SeeCalvinism.
EFFECTUALNESS
The quality of being effectual.
EFFECTUATE
To bring to pass; to effect; to achieve; to accomplish; tofulfill.A fit instrument to effectuate his desire. Sir P. Sidney.In order to effectuate the thorough reform. G. T. Curtis.
EFFECTUATION
Act of effectuating.
EFFECTUOUSLY
Effectively. [Obs.]
EFFEMINACY
Characteristic quality of a woman, such as softness,luxuriousness, delicacy, or weakness, which is unbecoming a man;womanish delicacy or softness; -- used reproachfully of men. Milton.
EFFEMINATE
To make womanish; to make soft and delicate; to weaken.It will not corrupt or effeminate children's minds. Locke.
EFFEMINATENESS
The state of being effeminate; unmanly softness. Fuller.
EFFEMINATION
Effeminacy; womanishness. [Obs.] Bacon.
EFFEMINIZE
To make effeminate. [Obs.]
EFFENDI
Master; sir; -- a title of a Turkish state official and man oflearning, especially one learned in the law.
EFFERENT
An efferent duct or stream.
EFFEROUS
Like a wild beast; fierce. [Obs.]
EFFERVESCE
A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid whichtakes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form,producing innumerable small bubbles; as, the effervescence of acarbonate with citric acid.
EFFERVESCENT
Gently boiling or bubbling, by means of the disengagement ofgas
EFFERVESCIBLE
Capable of effervescing.
EFFERVESCIVE
Tending to produce effervescence. "An effervescive force."Hickok.
EFFET
The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt.
EFFETE
No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit,as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy;incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile.Effete results from virile efforts. Mrs. BrowningIf they find the old governments effete, worn out, . . . they mayseek new ones. Burke.
EFFICACIOUS
Possessing the quality of being effective; productive of, orpowerful to produce, the effect intended; as, an efficacious law.
EFFICACITY
Efficacy. [R.] J. Fryth.
EFFICACY
Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent orforce; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy ofmedicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer. "Ofnoxious efficacy." Milton.
EFFICIENT
Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to bewhat it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable;characterized by energetic and useful activity; as, an efficientofficer, power.The efficient cause is the working cause. Wilson.
EFFICIENTLY
With effect; effectively.
EFFIERCE
To make fierce. [Obs.] Spenser.
EFFIGIAL
Relating to an effigy.
EFFIGIATE
To form as an effigy; hence, to fashion; to adapt.[He must] effigiate and conform himself to those circumstances. Jer.Taylor.
EFFIGIATION
The act of forming in resemblance; an effigy. Fuller.
EFFIGIES
See Effigy. Dryden.
EFFIGY
The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether afull figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied tosculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of theheads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits.To burn, or To hang, in effigy, to burn or to hang an image orpicture of a person, as a token of public odium.
EFFLAGITATE
To ask urgently. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EFFLATE
To fill with breath; to puff up. Sir T. Herbert.
EFFLATION
The act of filling with wind; a breathing or puffing out; apuff, as of wind.A soft efflation of celestial fire. Parnell.
EFFLORESCE
To change on the surface, or throughout, to a whitish, mealy,or crystalline powder, from a gradual decomposition, esp. from theloss of water, on simple exposure to the air; as, Glauber's salts,and many others, effloresce.
EFFLORESCENCE
Flowering, or state of flowering; the blooming of flowers;blowth.
EFFLORESCENCY
The state or quality of being efflorescent; efflorescence.
EFFLOWER
To remove the epidermis of (a skin) with a concave knife, bluntin its middle part, -- as in making chamois leather.
EFFLUENCY
Effluence.
EFFLUENT
Flowing out; as, effluent beams. Parnell.
EFFLUVIABLE
Capable of being given off as an effluvium. "Effluviablematter." Boyle.
EFFLUVIAL
Belonging to effluvia.
EFFLUVIATE
To give forth effluvium. [R.] "An effluviating power." Boyle.
EFFLUVIUM
Subtile or invisible emanation; exhalation perceived by thesense of smell; especially, noisome or noxious exhalation; as, theeffluvium from diseased or putrefying bodies, or from ill drainage.
EFFLUX
To run out; to flow forth; to pass away. [Obs.] Boyle.
EFFODIENT
Digging up.
EFFORCE
To force; to constrain; to compel to yield. [Obs.] Spenser.
EFFORM
To form; to shape. [Obs.]Efforming their words within their lips. Jer. Taylor.
EFFORMATION
The act of giving shape or form. [Obs.] Ray.
EFFORT
A force acting on a body in the direction of its motion.Rankine.
EFFORTLESS
Making no effort. Southey.
EFFOSSION
A digging out or up. [R.] "The effossion of coins." Arbuthnot.
EFFRANCHISE
To enfranchise.
EFFRAY
To frighten; to scare. [Obs.] Spenser.
EFFRAYABLE
Frightful. [Obs.] Harvey.
EFFRENATION
Unbridled license; unruliness. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EFFRONT
To give assurance to. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EFFRONTERY
Impudence or boldness in confronting or in transgressing thebounds of duty or decorum; insulting presumptuousness; shamelessboldness; barefaced assurance.Corruption lost nothing of its effrontery. Bancroft.
EFFRONTIT
Marked by impudence. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
EFFRONTUOUSLY
Impudently. [Obs.] R. North.
EFFULGE
To cause to shine with abundance of light; to radiate; to beam.[R.]His eyes effulging a peculiar fire. Thomson.
EFFULGENCE
The state of being effulgent; extreme brilliancy; a flood oflight; great luster or brightness; splendor.The effulgence of his glory abides. Milton.The bright and the balmy effulgence of morn. Beattie.
EFFULGENT
Diffusing a flood of light; shining; luminous; beaming; bright;splendid. "Effulgent rays of light." Cowper.
EFFULGENTLY
In an effulgent manner.
EFFUMABILITY
The capability of flying off in fumes or vapor. [Obs.] Boyle.
EFFUME
To breathe or puff out. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
EFFUND
To pour out. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
EFFUSE
Spreading loosely, especially on one side; as, an effuseinflorescence. Loudon.
EFFUSIVE
Pouring out; pouring forth freely. "Washed with the effusivewave." Pope. Effusive rocks (Geol.), volcanic rocks, in distinctionfrom so-called intrusive, or plutonic, rocks.-- Ef*fu"sive*ly, adv.-- Ef*fu"sive*ness, n.
EFREET
See Afrit.
EFT
Again; afterwards; soon; quickly. [Obs.]I wold never eft comen into the snare. Spenser.
EGAD
An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc.
EGAL
Equal; impartial. [Obs.] Shak.
EGALITY
Equality. Chaucer. Tennyson.
EGEAN
See รgean.
EGENCE
The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want. [R.] J.Grote.
EGER
An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre.
EGERMINATE
To germinate. [Obs.]
EGEST
To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as theindigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete bythe lungs, skin, or kidneys.
EGESTA
That which is egested or thrown off from the body by thevarious excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta.
EGESTION
Act or process of egesting; a voiding. Sir M. Hale.
EGG
The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and otherbirds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded bythe "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane.
EGG SQUASH
A variety of squash with small egg-shaped fruit.
EGG-BIRD
A species of tern, esp. the sooty tern (Sterna fuliginosa) ofthe West Indies. In the Bahama Islands the name is applied to thetropic bird, Phaรซthon flavirostris.
EGG-CUP
A cup used for holding an egg, at table.
EGG-GLASS
A small sandglass, running about three minutes, for markingtime in boiling eggs; also, a small glass for holding an egg, attable.
EGG-SHAPED
Resembling an egg in form; ovoid.
EGGAR
Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as,the oak eggar (L. roboris) of Europe.
EGGEMENT
Instigation; incitement. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EGGER
One who gathers eggs; an eggler.
EGGERY
A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds) or kept; anest of eggs. [R.]
EGGHOT
A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale. Lamb.
EGGLER
One who gathers, or deals in, eggs.
EGGNOG
A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and(usually) wine or spirits.
EGGPLANT
A plant (Solanum Melongena), of East Indian origin, allied tothe tomato, and bearing a large, smooth, edible fruit, shapedsomewhat like an egg; mad-apple.
EGGSHELL
A smooth, white, marine, gastropod shell of the genus Ovulum,resembling an egg in form.
EGHEN
Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EGILOPICAL
Pertaining to, of the nature of, or affected with, an รฆgilops,or tumor in the corner of the eye.
EGILOPS
See รgilops.
EGLATERE
Eglantine. [Obs. or R.] [Written also eglantere.] Tennyson.
EGLING
The European perch when two years old. [Prov. Eng.]
EGLOMERATE
To unwind, as a thread from a ball. [R.]
EGO
The conscious and permanent subject of all psychicalexperiences, whether held to be directly known or the product ofreflective thought; -- opposed to non-ego.
EGOICAL
Pertaining to egoism. [R.]
EGOISM
The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples ofDescartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements ofknowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or providesfor.
EGOIST
A believer in egoism.
EGOISTICALLY
In an egoistic manner.
EGOITY
Personality. [R.] Swift.
EGOMISM
Egoism. [R.] A. Baxter.
EGOPHONIC
Belonging to, or resembling, egophony.
EGOPHONY
The sound of a patient's voice so modified as to resemble thebleating of a goat, heard on applying the ear to the chest in certaindiseases within its cavity, as in pleurisy with effusion.
EGOTHEISM
The deification of self. [R.]
EGOTISM
The practice of too frequently using the word I; hence, aspeaking or writing overmuch of one's self; self-exaltation; self-praise; the act or practice of magnifying one's self or paradingone's own doings. The word is also used in the sense of egoism.His excessive egotism, which filled all objects with himself.Hazlitt.
EGOTIST
One addicted to egotism; one who speaks much of himself ormagnifies his own achievements or affairs.
EGOTISTICALLY
With egotism.
EGOTIZE
To talk or write as an egotist. Cowper.
EGRANULOSE
Having no granules, as chlorophyll in certain conditions. R.Brown.
EGRE
See Eager, and Eagre. [Obs.]
EGREGIOUS
Surpassing; extraordinary; distinguished (in a bad sense); --formerly used with words importing a good quality, but now joinedwith words having a bad sense; as, an egregious rascal; an egregiousass; an egregious mistake.The egregious impudence of this fellow. Bp. Hall.His [Wyclif's] egregious labors are not to be neglected. Milton.
EGREGIOUSLY
Greatly; enormously; shamefully; as, egregiously cheated.
EGREGIOUSNESS
The state of being egregious.
EGREMOIN
Agrimony (Agrimonia Eupatoria). [Obs.] Chaucer.
EGRESS
The passing off from the sun's disk of an inferior planet, in atransit.
EGRESSION
The act of going; egress. [R.] B. Jonson.
EGRESSOR
One who goes out. [R.]
EGRET
The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on theback. They are generally white. Among the best known species are theAmerican egret (Ardea, or Herodias, egretta); the great egret (A.alba); the little egret (A. garzetta), of Europe; and the Americansnowy egret (A. candidissima).A bunch of egrets killed for their plumage. G. W. Cable.
EGRETTE
Same as Egret, n.,
EGRIMONY
The herb agrimony. [Obs.]
EGRIOT
A kind of sour cherry. Bacon.
EGRITUDE
Sickness; ailment; sorrow. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
EGYPTIAN
Pertaining to Egypt, in Africa. Egyptian bean. (Bot.) (a) Thebeanlike fruit of an aquatic plant (Nelumbium speciosum), somewhatresembling the water lily. (b) See under Bean,
EGYPTIZE
To give an Egyptian character or appearance to. Fairbairn.
EGYPTOLOGICAL
Of, pertaining to, or devoted to, Egyptology.
EGYPTOLOGY
The science or study of Egyptian antiquities, esp. thehieroglyphics.
EH
An expression of inquiry or slight surprise.
EHLITE
A mineral of a green color and pearly luster; a hydrousphosphate of copper.
EIDER
Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateriamollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America,and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body) which isan article of commerce; -- called also eider duck. The American eider(S. Dresseri), the king eider (S. spectabilis), and the spectacledeider (Arctonetta Fischeri) are related species. Eider down. Etym:[Cf. Icel. รฆ\'ebardun, Sw. eiderdun, Dan. ederduun.] Down of theeider duck, much sought after as an article of luxury.
EIDOGRAPH
An instrument for copying drawings on the same or a differentscale; a form of the pantograph.
EIDOLON
An image or representation; a form; a phantom; an apparition.Sir W. Scott.
EIGH
An exclamation expressing delight.
EIGHT
An island in a river; an ait. [Obs.] "Osiers on their eights."Evelyn.
EIGHTEEN
Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds.
EIGHTEENMO
See Octodecimo.
EIGHTETETHE
Eighteenth. [Obs.]
EIGHTFOLD
Eight times a quantity.
EIGHTH
The interval of an octave.
EIGHTHLY
As the eighth in order.
EIGHTIETH
The quotient of a unit divided by eighty; one of eighty equalparts.
EIGHTLING
A compound or twin crystal made up of eight individuals.
EIGHTSCORE
Eight times twenty; a hundred and sixty.
EIGHTY
Eight times ten; fourscore.
EIGNE
Eldest; firstborn. Blackstone.
EIKING
See Eking.
EIKON
An image or effigy; -- used rather in an abstract sense, andrarely for a work of art.
EIKONOGEN
The sodium salt of a sulphonic acid of a naphthol,C10H5(OH)(NH2)SO3Na used as a developer.
EIKOSANE
A solid hydrocarbon, C20H42, of the paraffine series, ofartificial production, and also probably occurring in petroleum.
EIKOSYLENE
A liquid hydrocarbon, C20H38, of the acetylene series, obtainedfrom brown coal.
EILD
Age. [Obs.] Fairfax.
EIRE
Air. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EIRENARCH
A justice of the peace; irenarch.
EIRENIC
Pacific. See Irenic.
EIRIE
See Aerie, and Eyrie.
EISEL
Vinegar; verjuice. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
EISTEDDFOD
Am assembly or session of the Welsh bards; an annual congressof bards, minstrels and literati of Wales, -- being a patrioticrevival of the old custom.
EITHER
precedes two, or more, coรถrdinate words or phrases, and isintroductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or.Either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, orperadventure he sleepeth. 1 Kings xviii. 27.Few writers hesitate to use either in what is called a triplealternative; such as, We must either stay where we are, proceed, orrecede. Latham.
EJACULATE
To utter ejaculations; to make short and hasty exclamations.[R.] "Ejaculating to himself." Sir W. Scott.
EJACULATION
The act of ejecting or suddenly throwing, as a fluid from aduct.
EJACULATOR
A muscle which helps ejaculation.
EJECT
To cast out; to evict; to dispossess; as, to eject tenants froman estate.
EJECTA
Matter ejected; material thrown out; as, the ejecta of avolcano; the ejecta, or excreta, of the body.
EJECTION
The act or process of discharging anything from the body,particularly the excretions.
EJECTMENT
A species of mixed action, which lies for the recovery ofpossession of real property, and damages and costs for the wrongfulwithholding of it. Wharton.
EJECTOR
A jet jump for lifting water or withdrawing air from a space.Ejector condenser (Steam Engine), a condenser in which the vacuum ismaintained by a jet pump.
EJOO
Gomuti fiber. See Gomuti.
EJULATION
A wailing; lamentation. [Obs.] "Ejulation in the pangs ofdeath." Philips.
EKALUMINIUM
The name given to a hypothetical element, -- later discoveredand called gallium. See Gallium, and cf. Ekabor.
EKASILICON
The name of a hypothetical element predicted and afterwardsdiscovered and named germanium; -- so called because it was a missinganalogue of the silicon group. See Germanium, and cf. Ekkabor.
EKE
To increase; to add to; to augment; -- now commonly used without, the notion conveyed being to add to, or piece out by alaborious, inferior, or scanty addition; as, to eke out a scantysupply of one kind with some other. "To eke my pain." Spenser.He eked out by his wits an income of barely fifty pounds. Macaulay.
EKEBERGITE
A variety of scapolite.
EKENAME
An additional or epithet name; a nickname. [Obs.]
ELABORATE
Wrought with labor; finished with great care; studied; executedwith exactness or painstaking; as, an elaborate discourse; anelaborate performance; elaborate research.Drawn to the life in each elaborate page. Waller.
ELABORATED
developed or executed with care and in minute detail; as, thecarefully elaborated theme.Syn. -- detailed, elaborate.[WordNet 1.5]
ELABORATION
The natural process of formation or assimilation, performed bythe living organs in animals and vegetables, by which a crudesubstance is changed into something of a higher order; as, theelaboration of food into chyme; the elaboration of chyle, or sap, ortissues.
ELABORATIVE
Serving or tending to elaborate; constructing with labor andminute attention to details. Elaborative faculty (Metaph.), theintellectual power of discerning relations and of viewing objects bymeans of, or in, relations; the discursive faculty; thought.
ELABORATOR
One who, or that which, elaborates.
ELABORATORY
Tending to elaborate.
ELAEAGNUS
A genus of shrubs or small trees, having the foliage coveredwith small silvery scales; oleaster.
ELAEIS
A genus of palms.
ELAEOLITE
A variety of hephelite, usually massive, of greasy luster, andgray to reddish color. Elรฆolite syenite, a kind of syenitecharacterized by the presence of elรฆolite.
ELAEOPTENE
The more liquid or volatile portion of certain oily substance,as distinguished from stearoptene, the more solid parts. [Writtenalso elaoptene.]
ELAIDATE
A salt of elaidic acid.
ELAIDIC
Relating to oleic acid, or elaine. Elaidic acid (Chem.), afatty acid isomeric with oleic acid, and obtained from it by theaction of nitrous acid.
ELAIDIN
A solid isomeric modification of olein.
ELAIODIC
Derived from castor oil; ricinoleic; as, elaiodic acid. [R.]
ELAIOMETER
An apparatus for determining the amount of oil contained in anysubstance, or for ascertaining the degree of purity of oil.
ELAMITE
A dweller in Flam (or Susiana), an ancient kingdom ofSouthwestern Asia, afterwards a province of Persia.
ELAMPING
Shining. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
ELAN
Ardor inspired by passion or enthusiasm.
ELANCE
To throw as a lance; to hurl; to dart. [R.]While thy unerring hand elanced . . . a dart. Prior.
ELAND
A species of large South African antelope (Oreas canna). It isvalued both for its hide and flesh, and is rapidly disappearing inthe settled districts; -- called also Cape elk.
ELANET
A kite of the genus Elanus.
ELAOLITE
See Elรฆolite.
ELAOPTENE
See Elรฆoptene.
ELAPHINE
Pertaining to, resembling, or characteristic of, the stag, orCervus elaphus.
ELAPHURE
A species of deer (Elaphurus Davidianus) found in china. Itabout four feet high at the shoulder and has peculiar antlers.
ELAPIDATION
A clearing away of stones. [R.]
ELAPINE
Like or pertaining to the Elapidรฆ, a family of poisonousserpents, including the cobras. See Ophidia.
ELAPS
A genus of venomous snakes found both in America and the OldWorld. Many species are known. See Coral snake, under Coral.
ELAPSE
To slip or glide away; to pass away silently, as time; -- usedchiefly in reference to time.Eight days elapsed; at length a pilgrim came. Hoole.
ELAPSION
The act of elapsing. [R.]
ELAQUEATE
To disentangle. [R.]
ELASIPODA
An order of holothurians mostly found in the deep sea. They areremarkable for their bilateral symmetry and curious forms. [Writtenalso Elasmopoda.]
ELASMOBRANCH
Of or pertaining to the Elasmobranchii.-- n.
ELASMOBRANCHIATE
Of or pertaining to Elasmobranchii.-- n.
ELASMOBRANCHII
A subclass of fishes, comprising the sharks, the rays, and theChimรฆra. The skeleton is mainly cartilaginous.
ELASMOSAURUS
An extinct, long-necked, marine, cretaceous reptile fromKansas, allied to Plesiosaurus.
ELASTIC
An elastic woven fabric, as a belt, braces or suspenders, etc.,made in part of India rubber. [Colloq.]
ELASTICAL
Elastic. [R.] Bentley.
ELASTICALLY
In an elastic manner; by an elastic power; with a spring.
ELASTICNESS
The quality of being elastic; elasticity.
ELASTIN
A nitrogenous substance, somewhat resembling albumin, whichforms the chemical basis of elastic tissue. It is very insoluble inmost fluids, but is gradually dissolved when digested with eitherpepsin or trypsin.
ELATEDLY
With elation.
ELATEDNESS
The state of being elated.
ELATER
One who, or that which, elates.
ELATERITE
A mineral resin, of a blackish brown color, occurring in soft,flexible masses; -- called also mineral caoutchouc, and elasticbitumen.
ELATERIUM
A cathartic substance obtained, in the form of yellowish orgreenish cakes, as the dried residue of the juice of the wild orsquirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly called MomordicaElaterium).
ELATEROMETER
Same as Elatrometer.
ELATERY
Acting force; elasticity. [Obs.] Ray.
ELATION
A lifting up by success; exaltation; inriation with pride ofprosperity. "Felt the elation of triumph." Sir W. Scott.
ELATIVE
Raised; lifted up; -- a term applied to what is also called theabsolute superlative, denoting a high or intense degree of a quality,but not excluding the idea that an equal degree may exist in othercases.
ELATROMETER
An instrument for measuring the degree of rarefaction of aircontained in the receiver of an air pump. [Spelt also elaterometer.]
ELAYL
Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from itsforming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] SeeEthylene.
ELBOW
A sharp angle in any surface of wainscoting or other woodwork;the upright sides which flank any paneled work, as the sides ofwindows, where the jamb makes an elbow with the window back. Gwilt.
ELBOWBOARD
The base of a window casing, on which the elbows may rest.
ELBOWCHAIR
A chair with arms to support the elbows; an armchair. Addison.
ELBOWROOM
Room to extend the elbows on each side; ample room for motionor action; free scope. "My soul hath elbowroom." Shak.Then came a stretch of grass and a little more elbowroom. W. G.Norris.
ELCAJA
An Arabian tree (Trichilia emetica). The fruit, which isemetic, is sometimes employed in the composition of an ointment forthe cure of the itch.
ELCESAITE
One of a sect of Asiatic Gnostics of the time of the EmperorTrajan.
ELD
Old. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ELDER
A clergyman authorized to administer all the sacraments; as, atraveling elder. Presiding elder (Meth. Ch.), an elder commissionedby a bishop to have the oversight of the churches and preachers in acertain district.-- Ruling elder, a lay presbyter or member of a Presbyterian churchsession. Schaff.
ELDERBERRY
The berrylike drupe of the elder. That of the Old World elder(Sambucus nigra) and that of the American sweet elder (S. Canadensis)are sweetish acid, and are eaten as a berry or made into wine.
ELDERISH
Somewhat old; elderly. [R.]
ELDERLY
Somewhat old; advanced beyond middle age; bordering on old age;as, elderly people.
ELDERN
Made of elder. [Obs.]He would discharge us as boys do eldern guns. Marston.
ELDERWORT
Danewort.
ELDING
Fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
ELDRITCH
Hideous; ghastly; as, an eldritch shriek or laugh. [Local,Eng.]
ELEATIC
Of or pertaining to a certain school of Greek philosophers whotaught that the only certain science is that which owes nothing tothe senses, and all to the reason.-- n.
ELEATICISM
The Eleatic doctrine.
ELECAMPANE
A large, coarse herb (Inula Helenium), with composite yellowflowers. The root, which has a pungent taste, is used as a tonic, andwas formerly of much repute as a stomachic.
ELECT
Chosen as the object of mercy or divine favor; set apart toeternal life. "The elect angels." 1 Tim. v. 21.
ELECTANT
One who has the power of choosing; an elector. [R.]
ELECTARY
See Electuary.
ELECTIC
See Eclectic.
ELECTICISM
See Eclecticism.
ELECTION
Divine choice; predestination of individuals as objects ofmercy and salvation; -- one of the "five points" of Calvinism.There is a remnant according to the election of grace. Rom. xi. 5.
ELECTIONEER
To make interest for a candidate at an election; to use artsfor securing the election of a candidate.A master of the whole art of electioneering. Macaulay.
ELECTIONEERER
One who electioneers.
ELECTIVE
In an American college, an optional study or course of study.[Colloq.]
ELECTIVELY
In an elective manner; by choice.
ELECTOR
Pertaining to an election or to electors.In favor of the electoral and other princes. Burke.Electoral college, the body of princes formerly entitled to elect theEmperor of Germany; also, a name sometimes given, in the UnitedStates, to the body of electors chosen by the people to elect thePresident and Vice President.
ELECTORALITY
The territory or dignity of an elector; electorate. [R.] Sir H.Wotton.
ELECTORESS
An electress. Bp. Burnet.
ELECTORIAL
Electoral. Burke.
ELECTORSHIP
The office or status of an elector.
ELECTREPETER
An instrument used to change the direction of electriccurrents; a commutator. [R.]
ELECTRESS
The wife or widow of an elector in the old German empire.Burke.
ELECTRIC
A nonconductor of electricity, as amber, glass, resin, etc.,employed to excite or accumulate electricity.
ELECTRICALLY
In the manner of electricity, or by means of it; thrillingly.
ELECTRICALNESS
The state or quality of being electrical.
ELECTRICIAN
An investigator of electricity; one versed in the science ofelectricity.
ELECTRIFIABLE
Capable of receiving electricity, or of being charged with it.
ELECTRIFICATION
The act of electrifying, or the state of being charged withelectricity.
ELECTRIFY
To become electric.
ELECTRITION
The recognition by an animal body of the electrical conditionof external objects.
ELECTRIZATION
The act of electrizing; electrification.
ELECTRIZE
To electricity. Eng. Cyc.
ELECTRIZER
One who, or that which, electrizes.
ELECTRO
An electrotype.
ELECTRO-
A prefix or combining form signifying pertaining toelectricity, produced by electricity, producing or employingelectricity, etc.; as, electro-negative; electro-dynamic; electro-magnet.
ELECTRO-BALLISTIC
Pertaining to electro-ballistics.
ELECTRO-BALLISTICS
The art or science of measuring the force or velocity ofprojectiles by means of electricity.
ELECTRO-BIOLOGIST
One versed in electro-biology.
ELECTRO-BIOSCOPY
A method of determining the presence or absence of life in ananimal organism with a current of electricity, by noting the presenceor absence of muscular contraction.
ELECTRO-CAPILLARITY
The occurrence or production of certain capillary effects bythe action of an electrical current or charge.
ELECTRO-CAPILLARY
Pert. to, or caused by, electro-capillarity.
ELECTRO-CHEMICAL
Of or pertaining to electro-chemistry. Ure.
ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY
That branch of science which treats of the relation ofelectricity to chemical changes.
ELECTRO-CHRONOGRAPH
An instrument for obtaining an accurate record of the time atwhich any observed phenomenon occurs, or of its duration. It has anelectro-magnetic register connected with a clock. See Chronograph.
ELECTRO-CHRONOGRAPHIC
Belonging to the electro-chronograph, or recorded by the aid ofit.
ELECTRO-DYNAMOMETER
An instrument for measuring the strength of electro-dynamiccurrents.
ELECTRO-ENGRAVING
The art or process of engraving by means of electricity.
ELECTRO-ETCHING
A mode of etching upon metals by electrolytic action.
ELECTRO-GILDING
The art or process of gilding copper, iron, etc., by means ofvoltaic electricity.
ELECTRO-GILT
Gilded by means of voltaic electricity.
ELECTRO-KINETIC
Of or pertaining to electro-kinetics.
ELECTRO-KINETICS
That branch of electrical science which treats of electricityin motion.
ELECTRO-MAGNET
A mass, usually of soft iron, but sometimes of some othermagnetic metal, as nickel or cobalt, rendered temporarily magnetic bybeing placed within a coil of wire through which a current ofelectricity is passing. The metal is generally in the form of a bar,either straight, or bent into the shape of a horseshoe.
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC
Of, Pertaining to, or produced by, magnetism which is developedby the passage of an electric current. Electro-magnetic engine, anengine in which the motive force is electro-magnetism.-- Electro-magnetic theory of light (Physics), a theory of lightwhich makes it consist in the rapid alternation of transient electriccurrents moving transversely to the direction of the ray.
ELECTRO-MAGNETISM
The magnetism developed by a current of electricity; thescience which treats of the development of magnetism by means ofvoltaic electricity, and of the properties or actions of the currentsevolved.
ELECTRO-METALLURGY
The act or art precipitating a metal electro-chemical action,by which a coating is deposited, on a prepared surface, as inelectroplating and electrotyping; galvanoplasty.
ELECTRO-MOTION
The motion of electricity or its passage from one metal toanother in a voltaic circuit; mechanical action produced by means ofelectricity.
ELECTRO-MOTIVE
Producing electro-motion; producing, or tending to produce,electricity or an electric current; causing electrical action oreffects. Electro-motive force (Physics), the force which produces, ortends to produce, electricity, or an electric current; sometimes usedto express the degree of electrification as equivalent to potential,or more properly difference of potential.
ELECTRO-MUSCULAR
Pertaining the reaction (contraction) of the muscles underelectricity, or their sensibility to it.
ELECTRO-NEGATIVE
A body which passes to the positive pole in electrolysis.
ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGICAL
Pertaining to electrical results produced through physiologicalagencies, or by change of action in a living organism.
ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGY
That branch of physiology which treats of electric phenomenaproduced through physiological agencies.
ELECTRO-POLAR
Possessing electrical polarity; positively electrified at oneend, or on one surface, and negatively at the other; -- said of aconductor.
ELECTRO-POSITIVE
Of such a nature relatively to some other associated body orbodies, as to tend to the negative pole of a voltaic battery, inelectrolysis, while the associated body tends to the positive pole; -- the converse or correlative of electro-negative.
ELECTRO-PUNCTURE
An operation that consists in inserting needless in the partaffected, and connecting them with the poles of a galvanic apparatus.
ELECTRO-STEREOTYPE
Same as Electrotype.
ELECTRO-TELEGRAPHIC
Pertaining to the electric telegraph, or by means of it.
ELECTRO-TELEGRAPHY
The art or science of constructing or using the electrictelegraph; the transmission of messages by means of the electrictelegraph.
ELECTRO-THERAPEUTICS
The branch of medical science which treats of the applicationsagent.
ELECTRO-THERMANCY
That branch of electrical science which treats of the effect ofan electric current upon the temperature of a conductor, or a part ofa circuit composed of two different metals.
ELECTRO-TINT
A style of engraving in relief by means of voltaic electricity.A picture is drawn on a metallic plate with some material whichresists the fluids of a battery; so that, in electro-typing, theparts not covered by the varnish, etc., receive a deposition ofmetal, and produce the required copy in intaglio. A cast of this isthen the plate for printing.
ELECTRO-VITAL
Derived from, or dependent upon, vital processes; -- said ofcertain electric currents supposed by some physiologists to circulatein the nerves of animals.
ELECTRO-VITALISM
The theory that the functions of living organisms are dependentupon electricity or a kindred force.
ELECTROCUTE
To execute or put to death by electricity.-- E*lec`tro*cu"tion, n.
ELECTRODE
The path by which electricity is conveyed into or from asolution or other conducting medium; esp., the ends of the wires orconductors, leading from source of electricity, and terminating inthe medium traversed by the current.
ELECTROGENESIS
Same as Electrogeny.
ELECTROGENIC
Of or pertaining to electrogenesis; as, an electrogeniccondition.
ELECTROGENY
A term sometimes applied to the effects (tetanus) produced inthe muscles of the limbs, when a current of electricity is passedalong the spinal cord or nerves.
ELECTROGRAPH
A mark, record, or tracing, made by the action of electricity.
ELECTROGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to an electrograph or electrography.
ELECTROLIER
A branching frame, often of ornamental design, to supportelectric illuminating lamps.
ELECTROLOGY
That branch of physical science which treats of the phenomenaof electricity and its properties.
ELECTROLYSIS
The act or process of chemical decomposition, by the action ofelectricity; as, the electrolysis of silver or nickel for plating;the electrolysis of water.
ELECTROLYTE
A compound decomposable, or subjected to decomposition, by anelectric current.
ELECTROLYZABLE
Capable of being electrolyzed, or decomposed by electricity.
ELECTROLYZATION
The act or the process of electrolyzing.
ELECTROLYZE
To decompose by the direct action of electricity. Faraday.
ELECTROMETER
An instrument for measuring the quantity or intensity ofelectricity; also, sometimes, and less properly, applied to aninstrument which indicates the presence of electricity (usuallycalled an electroscope). Balance electrometer. See under Balance.
ELECTROMETRY
The art or process of making electrical measurements.
ELECTROMOTOR
A mover or exciter of electricity; as apparatus for generatinga current of electricity.
ELECTRON
Amber; also, the alloy of gold and silver, called electrum.
ELECTRONIC
Of or pertaining to an electron or electrons.
ELECTROPATHY
The treatment of disease by electricity.
ELECTROPHONE
An instrument for producing sound by means of electriccurrents.
ELECTROPHORUS
An instrument for exciting electricity, and repeating thecharge indefinitely by induction, consisting of a flat cake of resin,shelllac, or ebonite, upon which is placed a plate of metal.
ELECTROPLATE
To plate or cover with a coating of metal, usually silver,nickel, or gold, by means of electrolysis.
ELECTROPLATER
One who electroplates.
ELECTROPLATING
The art or process of depositing a coating (commonly) ofsilver, gold, or nickel on an inferior metal, by means ofelectricity.
ELECTROSCOPE
An instrument for detecting the presence of electricity, orchanges in the electric state of bodies, or the species ofelectricity present, as by means of pith balls, and the like.Condensing electroscope (Physics), a form of electroscope in which anincrease of sensibility is obtained by the use of a condenser.
ELECTROSCOPIC
Relating to, or made by means of, the electroscope.
ELECTROSTATIC
Pertaining to electrostatics.
ELECTROSTATICS
That branch of science which treats of statical electricity orelectric force in a state of rest.
ELECTROTONIC
Of or pertaining to electrical tension; -- said of a supposedpeculiar condition of a conducting circuit during its exposure to theaction of another conducting circuit traversed by a uniform electriccurrent when both circuits remain stationary. Faraday.
ELECTROTONIZE
To cause or produce electrotonus.
ELECTROTONOUS
Electrotonic.
ELECTROTONUS
The modified condition of a nerve, when a constant current ofelectricity passes through any part of it. See Anelectrotonus, andCatelectrotonus.
ELECTROTYPE
A facsimile plate made by electrotypy for use in printing;also, an impression or print from such plate. Also used adjectively.
ELECTROTYPER
One who electrotypes.
ELECTROTYPIC
Pertaining to, or effected by means of, electrotypy.
ELECTROTYPING
The act or the process of making electrotypes.
ELECTROTYPY
The process of producing electrotype plates. See Note underElectrotype, n.
ELECTUARY
A medicine composed of powders, or other ingredients,incorporated with some convserve, honey, or sirup; a confection. Seethe note under Confection.
ELEEMOSYNARILY
In an eleemosynary manner; by charity; charitably.
ELEEMOSYNARY
One who subsists on charity; a dependent. South.
ELEGANTLY
In a manner to please nice taste; with elegance; with duesymmetry; richly.
ELEGIAC
Elegiac verse.
ELEGIACAL
Elegiac.
ELEGIAST
One who composes elegies. Goldsmith.
ELEGIOGRAPHER
An elegist. [Obs.]
ELEGIST
A write of elegies. T. Warton.
ELEGIT
A judicial writ of execution, by which a defendant's goods areappraised and delivered to the plaintiff, and, if no sufficient tosatisfy the debt, all of his lands are delivered, to be held till thedebt is paid by the rents and profits, or until the defendant'sinterest has expired.
ELEGIZE
To lament in an elegy; to celebrate in elegiac verse; tobewail. Carlyle.
ELEGY
A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem oflamentation. Shak.
ELEIDIN
Lifeless matter deposited in the form of minute granules withinthe protoplasm of living cells.
ELEMENTALISM
The theory that the heathen divinities originated in thepersonification of elemental powers.
ELEMENTALITY
The condition of being composed of elements, or a thing socomposed.
ELEMENTALLY
According to elements; literally; as, the words, "Take, eat;this is my body," elementally understood.
ELEMENTAR
Elementary. [Obs.] Skelton.
ELEMENTARINESS
The state of being elementary; original simplicity;uncompounded state.
ELEMENTARITY
Elementariness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ELEMENTATION
Instruction in the elements or first principles. [R.]
ELEMENTOID
Resembling an element.
ELEMI
A fragrant gum resin obtained chiefly tropical trees of thegenera Amyris and Canarium. A. elemifera yields Mexican elemi; C.commune, the Manila elemi. It is used in the manufacture ofvarnishes, also in ointments and plasters.
ELEMIN
A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin bydistillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from theresin.
ELENCHICAL
Pertaining to an elench.
ELENCHICALLY
By means of an elench.
ELENCHIZE
To dispute. [R.] B. Jonson.
ELENCHUS
Same as Elench.
ELENGE
Sorrowful; wretched; full of trouble. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ELENGENESS
Loneliness; misery. [Obs.]
ELEPHANSY
Elephantiasis. [Obs.] Holland.
ELEPHANT
A mammal of the order Proboscidia, of which two living species,Elephas Indicus and E. Africanus, and several fossil species, areknown. They have a proboscis or trunk, and two large ivory tusksproceeding from the extremity of the upper jaw, and curving upwards.The molar teeth are large and have transverse folds. Elephants arethe largest land animals now existing.
ELEPHANTIAC
Affected with elephantiasis; characteristic of elephantiasis.
ELEPHANTIASIS
A disease of the skin, in which it become enormously thickened,and is rough, hard, and fissured, like an elephant's hide.
ELEPHANTINE
Pertaining to the elephant, or resembling an elephant(commonly, in size); hence, huge; immense; heavy; as, of elephantineproportions; an elephantine step or tread. Elephantine epoch (Geol.),the epoch distinguished by the existence of large pachyderms.Mantell.-- Elephantine tortoise (Zoรถl.), a huge land tortoise; esp., Testudoelephantina, from islands in the Indian Ocean; and T. elephantopus,from the Galapagos Islands.
ELEUSINIAN
Pertaining to Eleusis, in Greece, or to secret rites in honorof Ceres, there celebrated; as, Eleusinian mysteries or festivals.
ELEUTHERO-PETALOUS
Having the petals free, that is, entirely separate from eachother; -- said of both plant and flower.
ELEUTHEROMANIA
A mania or frantic zeal for freedom. [R.] Carlyle.
ELEUTHEROMANIAC
Mad for freedom. [R.]
ELEVATE
Elevated; raised aloft. [Poetic] Milton.
ELEVATED
Uplifted; high; lofty; also, animated; noble; as, elevatedthoughts. Elevated railway, one in which the track is raisedconsiderably above the ground, especially a city railway above theline of street travel.
ELEVATEDNESS
The quality of being elevated.
ELEVATION
The distance of a celestial object above the horizon, or thearc of a vertical circle intercepted between it and the horizon;altitude; as, the elevation of the pole, or of a star.
ELEVATOR
One who, or that which, raises or lifts up anything; as:(a) A mechanical contrivance, usually an endless belt or chain with aseries of scoops or buckets, for transferring grain to an upper loftfor storage.(b) A cage or platform and the hoisting machinery in a hotel,warehouse, mine, etc., for conveying persons, goods, etc., to or fromdifferent floors or levels; -- called in England a lift; the cage orplatform itself.(c) A building for elevating, storing, and discharging, grain.(d) (Anat.) A muscle which serves to raise a part of the body, as theleg or the eye.(e) (Surg.) An instrument for raising a depressed portion of a bone.Elevator head, leg, and boot, the boxes in which the upper pulley,belt, and lower pulley, respectively, run in a grain elevator.
ELEVATORY
Tending to raise, or having power to elevate; as, elevatoryforces.
ELEVE
A pupil; a student.
ELEVEN
Ten and one added; as, eleven men.
ELEVENTH
Of or pertaining to the interval of the octave and the fourth.
ELF
To entangle mischievously, as an elf might do.Elf all my hair in knots. Shak.
ELFIN
Relating to elves.
ELFISH
Of or relating to the elves; elflike; implike; weird; scarcelyhuman; mischievous, as though caused by elves. "Elfish light."Coleridge.The elfish intelligence that was so familiar an expression on hersmall physiognomy. Hawthorne.
ELFISHLY
In an elfish manner.
ELFISHNESS
The quality of being elfish.
ELFKIN
A little elf.
ELFLAND
Fairyland. Tennyson.
ELFLOCK
Hair matted, or twisted into a knot, as if by elves.
ELGIN MARBLES
Greek sculptures in the British Museum. They were obtained atAthens, about 1811, by Lord Elgin.
ELICIT
Elicited; drawn out; made real; open; evident. [Obs.] "Anelicit act of equity." Jer. Taylor.
ELICITATE
To elicit. [Obs.]
ELICITATION
The act of eliciting. [Obs.] Abp. Bramhall.
ELIDE
To cut off, as a vowel or a syllable, usually the final one; tosubject to elision.
ELIGIBILITY
The quality of being eligible; eligibleness; as, theeligibility of a candidate; the eligibility of an offer of marriage.
ELIGIBLENESS
The quality worthy or qualified to be chosen; suitableness;desirableness.
ELIGIBLY
In an eligible manner.
ELIMATE
To render smooth; to polish. [Obs.]
ELIMINANT
The result of eliminating n variables between n homogeneousequations of any degree; -- called also resultant.
ELIMINATE
To cause to disappear from an equation; as, to eliminate anunknown quantity.
ELIMINATION
the act of discharging or excreting waste products or foreignsubstances through the various emunctories.
ELIMINATIVE
Relating to, or carrying on, elimination.
ELINGUATE
To deprive of the tongue. [Obs.] Davies (Holy Roode).
ELINGUATION
Punishment by cutting out the tongue.
ELINGUID
Tongue-tied; dumb. [Obs.]
ELIQUAMENT
A liquid obtained from fat, or fat fish, by pressure.
ELIQUATION
The process of separating a fusible substance from one lessfusible, by means of a degree of heat sufficient to melt the one andnot the other, as an alloy of copper and lead; liquation. Ure.
ELISON
The cutting off or suppression of a vowel or syllable, for thesake of meter or euphony; esp., in poetry, the dropping of a finalvowel standing before an initial vowel in the following word, whenthe two words are drawn together.
ELISOR
An elector or chooser; one of two persons appointed by a courtto return a jury or serve a writ when the sheriff and the coronersare disqualified.
ELITE
A choice or select body; the flower; as, the รฉlite of society.
ELIX
To extract. [Obs.] Marston.
ELIXATE
To boil; to seethe; hence, to extract by boiling or seething.[Obs.] Cockeram.
ELIXATION
A seething; digestion. [Obs.] Burton.
ELIXIR
A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture ormedicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcoholin some form.
ELIZABETHAN
Pertaining to Queen Elizabeth or her times, esp. to thearchitecture or literature of her reign; as, the Elizabethan writers,drama, literature.-- n.
ELK
A large deer, of several species. The European elk (Alcesmachlis or Cervus alces) is closely allied to the American moose. TheAmerican elk, or wapiti (Cervus Canadensis), is closely related tothe European stag. See Moose, and Wapiti. Irish elk (Paleon.), alarge, extinct, Quaternary deer (Cervus giganteus) with widelyspreading antlers. Its remains have been found beneath the peat ofswamps in Ireland and England. See Illustration in Appendix; alsoIllustration of Antler.-- Cape elk (Zoรถl.), the eland.
ELKNUT
The buffalo nut. See under Buffalo.
ELKWOOD
The soft, spongy wood of a species of Magnolia (M. Umbrella).
ELL
A measure for cloth; -- now rarely used. It is of differentlengths in different countries; the English ell being 45 inches, theDutch or Flemish ell 27, the Scotch about 37.
ELLACHICK
A fresh-water tortoise (Chelopus marmoratus) of California; --used as food.
ELLAGIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, gallnuts or gallic acid; as,ellagic acid. Ellagic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance,C14H8O9, found in bezoar stones, and obtained by the oxidation ofgallic acid.
ELLEBORE
Hellebore. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ELLEBORIN
See Helleborin.
ELLECK
The red gurnard or cuckoo fish. [Prov. Eng.]
ELLES
See Else. [Obs.]
ELLIPSE
An oval or oblong figure, bounded by a regular curve, whichcorresponds to an oblique projection of a circle, or an obliquesection of a cone through its opposite sides. The greatest diameterof the ellipse is the major axis, and the least diameter is the minoraxis. See Conic section, under Conic, and cf. Focus.
ELLIPSIS
Omission; a figure of syntax, by which one or more words, whichare obviously understood, are omitted; as, the virtues I admire, for,the virtues which I admire.
ELLIPSOGRAPH
An instrument for describing ellipses; -- called also trammel.
ELLIPSOID
A solid, all plane sections of which are ellipses or circles.See Conoid, n., 2 (a).
ELLIPTIC-LANCEOLATE
Having a form intermediate between elliptic and lanceolate.
ELLIPTICITY
Deviation of an ellipse or a spheroid from the form of a circleor a sphere; especially, in reference to the figure of the earth, thedifference between the equatorial and polar semidiameters, divided bythe equatorial; thus, the ellipticity of the earth is
ELLIPTOGRAPH
Same as Ellipsograph.
ELLWAND
Formerly, a measuring rod an ell long.
ELM
A tree of the genus Ulmus, of several species, much used as ashade tree, particularly in America. The English elm is Ulmuscampestris; the common American or white elm is U. Americana; theslippery or red elm, U. fulva. Elm beetle (Zoรถl.), one of severalspecies of beetles (esp. Galeruca calmariensis), which feed on theleaves of the elm.-- Elm borer (Zoรถl.), one of several species of beetles of which thelarvรฆ bore into the wood or under the bark of the elm (esp. Saperdatridentata).-- Elm butterfly (Zoรถl.), one of several species of butterflies,which, in the caterpillar state, feed on the leaves of the elm (esp.Vanessa antiopa and Grapta comma). See Comma butterfly, under Comma.-- Elm moth (Zoรถl.), one of numerous species of moths of which thelarvรฆ destroy the leaves of the elm (esp. Eugonia subsignaria, calledelm spanworm).-- Elm sawfly (Zoรถl.), a large sawfly (Cimbex Americana). The larva,which is white with a black dorsal stripe, feeds on the leaves of theelm.
ELMEN
Belonging to elms. [Obs.]
ELMY
Abounding with elms.The simple spire and elmy grange. T. Warton.
ELOCULAR
Having but one cell, or cavity; not divided by a septum orpartition.
ELOCUTIONARY
Pertaining to elocution.
ELOCUTIONIST
One who is versed in elocution; a teacher of elocution.
ELOCUTIVE
Pertaining to oratorical expression. [Obs.] Feltham.
ELODIAN
One of a tribe of tortoises, including the terrapins, etc., inwhich the head and neck can be withdrawn.
ELOGE
A panegyrical funeral oration.
ELOGIST
One who pronounces an รฉloge.
ELOHIM
One of the principal names by which God is designated in theHebrew Scriptures.
ELOHIST
The writer, or one of the writers, of the passages of the OldTestament, notably those of Elohim instead of Jehovah, as the name ofthe Supreme Being; -- distinguished from Jehovist. S. Davidson.
ELOHISTIC
Relating to Elohim as a name of God; -- said of passages in theOld Testament.
ELOIGN
To convey to a distance, or beyond the jurisdiction, or toconceal, as goods liable to distress.The sheriff may return that the goods or beasts are eloigned.Blackstone.
ELOIGNATE
To remove. [Obs.] Howell.
ELOIGNMENT
Removal to a distance; withdrawal. [Obs.]
ELOIN
See Eloign.
ELOINATE
See Eloignate.
ELOINMENT
See Eloignment.
ELONGATE
To depart to, or be at, a distance; esp., to recede apparentlyfrom the sun, as a planet in its orbit. [R.]
ELONGATION
The angular distance of a planet from the sun; as, theelongation of Venus or Mercury.
ELOPE
To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station towhich one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man,either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or asweetheart.Great numbers of them [the women] have eloped from their allegiance.Addison.
ELOPEMENT
The act of eloping; secret departure; -- said of a woman and aman, one or both, who run away from their homes for marriage or forcohabitation.
ELOPER
One who elopes.
ELOPS
A genus of fishes. See Saury.
ELOQUENTLY
In an eloquent manner.
ELSE
Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming Whatelse shall I give Do you expect anything else "Bastards and else."Shak.
ELSEWHITHER
To some, or any, other place; as, you will have to goelsewhither for it. R. of Gloucester."For elsewhither was I bound."Carlyle.
ELSEWISE
Otherwise. [R.]
ELSIN
A shoemaker's awl. [Prov. Eng.]
ELUCIDATE
To make clear or manifest; to render more intelligible; toillustrate; as, an example will elucidate the subject.
ELUCIDATION
A making clear; the act of elucidating or that whichelucidates, as an explanation, an exposition, an illustration; as,one example may serve for further elucidation of the subject.
ELUCIDATIVE
Making clear; tending to elucidate; as, an elucidative note.
ELUCIDATOR
One who explains or elucidates; an expositor.
ELUCIDATORY
Tending to elucidate; elucidative. [R.]
ELUCTATE
To struggle out; -- with out. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket.
ELUCTATION
A struggling out of any difficulty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ELUCUBRATE
See Lucubrate. [Obs.] Blount.
ELUCUBRATION
See Lucubration. [Obs.] Evelyn.
ELUDE
To avoid slyly, by artifice, stratagem, or dexterity; to escapefrom in a covert manner; to mock by an unexpected escape; to baffle;as, to elude an officer; to elude detection, inquiry, search,comprehension; to elude the force of an argument or a blow.Me gentle Delia beckons from the plain, Then, hid in shades, eludeshe eager swain. Pope.The transition from fetichism to polytheism seems a gradual processof which the stages elude close definition. Tylor.
ELUDIBLE
Capable of being eluded; evadible.
ELUL
The sixth month of the Jewish year, by the sacred reckoning, orthe twelfth, by the civil reckoning, corresponding nearly to themonth of September.
ELUMBATED
Weak or lame in the loins. [Obs.]
ELUSION
Act of eluding; adroit escape, as by artifice; a mockery; acheat; trickery.
ELUSIVE
Tending to elude; using arts or deception to escape; adroitlyescaping or evading; eluding the grasp; fallacious.Elusive of the bridal day, she gives Fond hopes to all, and all withhopes deceives. Pope.-- E*lu"sive*ly, adv.-- E*lu"sive*ness, n.
ELUSORY
Tending to elude or deceive; evasive; fraudulent; fallacious;deceitful; deceptive.-- E*lu"so*ri*ness, n.
ELUTE
To wash out. [R.] Arbuthnot.
ELUTRIATE
To wash or strain out so as to purify; as, to elutriate theblood as it passes through the lungs; to strain off or decant, as apowder which is separated from heavier particles by being drawn offwith water; to cleanse, as by washing.
ELUTRIATION
The process of elutriating; a decanting or racking off by meansof water, as finer particles from heavier.
ELUXATE
To dislocate; to luxate.
ELUXATION
Dislocation; luxation.
ELVAN
Of or pertaining to certain veins of feldspathic or porphyriticrock crossing metalliferous veins in the mining districts ofCornwall; as, an elvan course.
ELVE
An old form of Elf.
ELVER
A young eel; a young conger or sea eel; -- called also elvene.
ELVES
pl. of Elf.
ELVISHLY
In an elvish manner. Sir W. Scott.
ELWAND
See Ellwand.
ELYSIAN
Pertaining, or the abode of the blessed after death; hence,yielding the highest pleasures; exceedingly delightful; beatific."Elysian shades." Massinger. "Elysian age." Beattie.This life of mortal breath Is but a suburb of the life elysian.Longfellow.
ELYTRIFORM
Having the form, or structure, of an elytron.
ELYTRIN
See Chitin.
ELYTROID
Resembling a beetle's wing case.
ELZEVIR
Applied to books or editions (esp. of the Greek New Testamentand the classics) printed and published by the Elzevir family atAmsterdam, Leyden, etc., from about 1592 to 1680; also, applied to around open type introduced by them.The Elzevir editions are valued for their neatness, and the elegantsmall types used. Brande & C.
EM
The portion of a line formerly occupied by the letter m, then asquare type, used as a unit by which to measure the amount of printedmatter on a page; the square of the body of a type.
EM-
A prefix. See En-.
EMACERATE
To make lean or to become lean; to emaciate. [Obs.] Bullokar.
EMACERATION
Emaciation. [Obs.]
EMACIATE
To lose flesh gradually and become very lean; to waste away inflesh. "He emaciated and pined away." Sir T. Browne.
EMACULATE
To clear from spots or stains, or from any imperfection. [Obs.]Hales.
EMACULATION
The act of clearing from spots. [Obs.] Johnson.
EMANANT
Issuing or flowing forth; emanating; passing forth into an act,or making itself apparent by an effect; -- said of mental acts; as,an emanant volition.
EMANATE
Issuing forth; emanant. [R.]
EMANATIVE
Issuing forth; effluent.
EMANATIVELY
By an emanation.
EMANATORY
Emanative; of the nature of an emanation. Dr. H. More.
EMANCIPATE
To set free from the power of another; to liberate; as: (a) Toset free, as a minor from a parent; as, a father may emancipate achild. (b) To set free from bondage; to give freedom to; to manumit;as, to emancipate a slave, or a country.Brasidas . . . declaring that he was sent to emancipate Hellas.Jowett (Thucyd. ).
EMANCIPATION
The act of setting free from the power of another, fromslavery, subjection, dependence, or controlling influence; also, thestate of being thus set free; liberation; as, the emancipation ofslaves; the emancipation of minors; the emancipation of a person fromprejudices; the emancipation of the mind from superstition; theemancipation of a nation from tyranny or subjection.
EMANCIPATIONIST
An advocate of emancipation, esp. the emancipation of slaves.
EMANCIPATOR
One who emancipates.
EMANCIPATORY
Pertaining to emancipation, or tending to effect emancipation."Emancipatory laws." G. Eliot.
EMANCIPIST
A freed convict. [Australia]
EMARGINATE
To take away the margin of.
EMARGINATELY
In an emarginate manner.
EMARGINATION
The act of notching or indenting the margin, or the state ofbeing so notched; also, a notch or shallow sinus in a margin.
EMASCULATE
Deprived of virility or vigor; unmanned; weak. "Emasculateslave." Hammond.
EMASCULATOR
One who, or that which, emasculates.
EMASCULATORY
Serving or tending to emasculate.
EMBACE
See Embase. [Obs.]
EMBALL
To encircle or embrace. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
EMBALMER
One who embalms.
EMBALMMENT
The act of embalming. [R.] Malone.
EMBANK
To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect bya bank of earth or stone.
EMBARCATION
Same as Embarkation.
EMBARGE
To put in a barge. [Poetic] Drayton.
EMBARGO
An edict or order of the government prohibiting the departureof ships of commerce from some or all of the ports within itsdominions; a prohibition to sail.
EMBARKMENT
Embarkation. [R.] Middleton.
EMBARRASS
To involve in difficulties concerning money matters; toincumber with debt; to beset with urgent claims or demands; -- saidof a person or his affairs; as, a man or his business is embarrassedwhen he can not meet his pecuniary engagements.
EMBASE
To bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase;to degrade; to deteriorate. [Obs.]Embased the valleys, and embossed the hills. Sylvester.Alloy in coin of gold . . . may make the metal work the better, butit embaseth it. Bacon.Such pitiful embellishments of speech as serve for nothing but toembase divinity. South.
EMBASEMENT
Act of bringing down; depravation; deterioration. South.
EMBASSADE
An embassy. See Ambassade. [Obs.] Shak.
EMBASSADOR
Same as Ambassador.Stilbon, that was a wise embassadour, Was sent to Corinth. Chaucer.Myself my king's embassador will go. Dryden.
EMBASSADORIAL
Same as Ambassadorial.
EMBASSADRESS
Same as Ambassadress.
EMBASSADRY
Embassy. [Obs.] Leland.
EMBASTARDIZE
To bastardize. [Obs.]
EMBATHE
To bathe; to imbathe.
EMBATTAIL
To furnish with battlements; to fortify as with battlements.[Archaic]To embattail and to wall about thy cause With iron-worded proof.Tennyson.
EMBATTLE
To arrange in order of battle; to array for battle; also, toprepare or arm for battle; to equip as for battle.One in bright arms embattled full strong. Spenser.Here once the embattled farmers stood And fired the shot heard roundthe world. Emerson.
EMBATTLED
Having the edge broken like battlements; -- said of a bearingsuch as a fess, bend, or the like.
EMBAY
To bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMBAYMENT
A bay. [R.]The embayment which is terminated by the land of North Berwick. SirW. Scott.
EMBEAM
To make brilliant with beams. [R.] G. Fletcher.
EMBED
To lay as in a bed; to lay in surrounding matter; to bed; as,to embed a thing in clay, mortar, or sand.
EMBEDMENT
The act of embedding, or the state of being embedded.
EMBELLISH
To make beautiful or elegant by ornaments; to decorate; toadorn; as, to embellish a book with pictures, a garden with shrubsand flowers, a narrative with striking anecdotes, or style withmetaphors.
EMBELLISHER
One who embellishes.
EMBER
A lighted coal, smoldering amid ashes; -- used chiefly in theplural, to signify mingled coals and ashes; the smoldering remains ofa fire. "He rakes hot embers." Dryden.He takes a lighted ember out of the covered vessel. Colebrooke.
EMBER-GOOSE
The loon or great northern diver. See Loon. [Written alsoemmer-goose and imber-goose.]
EMBERINGS
Ember days. [Obs.]
EMBERIZIDAE
a natural subfamily including buntings and some New Worldsparrows.Syn. -- subfamily Emberizidae, subfamily Emberizinae.[WordNet 1.5]
EMBETTER
To make better. [Obs.]
EMBEZZLEMENT
The fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom ithas been intrusted; as, the embezzlement by a clerk of hisemployer's; embezzlement of public funds by the public officer havingthem in charge.
EMBEZZLER
One who embezzles.
EMBILLOW
To swell or heave like a [R.] Lisle.
EMBIOTOCOID
Belonging to, or resembling, the Embiotocidรฆ.-- n.
EMBITTER
To make bitter or sad. See Imbitter.
EMBITTERMENT
The act of embittering; also, that which embitters.
EMBLANCH
To whiten. See Blanch. [Obs.] Heylin.
EMBLAZONER
One who emblazons; also, one who publishes and displaysanything with pomp.
EMBLAZONING
The act or art of heraldic decoration; delineation of armorialbearings.
EMBLAZONMENT
An emblazoning.
EMBLAZONRY
The act or art of an emblazoner; heraldic or ornamentaldecoration, as pictures or figures on shields, standards, etc.;emblazonment.Thine ancient standard's rich emblazonry. Trench.
EMBLEM
To represent by an emblem; to symbolize. [R.]Emblemed by the cozening fig tree. Feltham.
EMBLEMATICCIZE
To render emblematic; as, to emblematicize a picture. [R.]Walpole.
EMBLEMATIST
A writer or inventor of emblems. Sir T. Browne.
EMBLEMATIZE
To represent by, or as by, an emblem; to symbolize.Anciently the sun was commonly emblematized by a starry or radiatefigure. Bp. Hurd.
EMBLEMENT
The growing crop, or profits of a crop which has been sown orplanted; -- used especially in the plural. The produce of grass,trees, and the like, is not emblement. Wharton's Law Dict.
EMBLEMIZE
To represent by an emblem; to emblematize. [R.]
EMBLOOM
To emblossom. Savage.
EMBLOSSOM
To cover or adorn with blossoms.On the white emblossomed spray. J. Cunningham.
EMBODIER
One who embodies.
EMBODY
To form into a body; to invest with a body; to collect into abody, a united mass, or a whole; to incorporate; as, to embody one'sideas in a treatise. [Written also imbody.]Devils embodied and disembodied. Sir W. Scott.The soul, while it is embodied, can no more be divided from sin.South.
EMBOGUE
To disembogue; to discharge, as a river, its waters into thesea or another river. [R.]
EMBOGUING
The mouth of a river, or place where its waters are discharged.[R.]
EMBOIL
To boil with anger; to effervesce. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMBOITEMENT
The hypothesis that all living things proceed from preรซxistinggerms, and that these encase the germs of all future living things,inclosed one within another. Buffon.
EMBOLDEN
To give boldness or courage to; to encourage. Shak.The self-conceit which emboldened him to undertake this dangerousoffice. Sir W. Scott.
EMBOLDENER
One who emboldens.
EMBOLIC
Pertaining to an embolism; produced by an embolism; as, anembolic abscess.
EMBOLISM
The occlusion of a blood vessel by an embolus. Embolism in thebrain often produces sudden unconsciousness and paralysis.
EMBOLISMAL
Pertaining to embolism; intercalary; as, embolismal months.
EMBOLITE
A mineral consisting of both the chloride and the bromide ofsilver.
EMBOLUS
A plug of some substance lodged in a blood vessel, beingbrought thither by the blood current. It consists most frequently ofa clot of fibrin, a detached shred of a morbid growth, a globule offat, or a microscopic organism.
EMBOLY
Embolic invagination. See under Invagination.
EMBONPOINT
Plumpness of person; -- said especially of persons somewhatcorpulent.
EMBORDER
To furnish or adorn with a border; to imborder.
EMBOSS
To make to foam at the mouth, like a hunted animal. [Obs.]
EMBOSSER
One who embosses.
EMBOTTLE
To bottle. [R.] Phillips.
EMBOW
To bend like a bow; to curve. "Embowed arches." [Obs. or R.]Sir W. Scott.With gilded horns embowed like the moon. Spenser.
EMBOWELER
One who takes out the bowels. [Written also emboweller.]
EMBOWELMENT
Disembowelment.
EMBOWER
To cover with a bower; to shelter with trees. [Written alsoimbower.] [Poetic] Milton.-- v. i.
EMBOWL
To form like a bowl; to give a globular shape to. [Obs.] Sir P.Sidney.
EMBOX
To inclose, as in a box; to imbox.
EMBOYSSEMENT
An ambush. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EMBRACE
To fasten on, as armor. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMBRACEOR
One guilty of embracery.
EMBRACER
One who embraces.
EMBRACERY
An attempt to influence a court, jury, etc., corruptly, bypromises, entreaties, money, entertainments, threats, or otherimproper inducements.
EMBRACIVE
Disposed to embrace; fond of caressing. [R.] Thackeray.
EMBRANCHMENT
The branching forth, as of trees.
EMBRANGLE
To confuse; to entangle.I am lost and embrangled in inextricable difficulties. Berkeley.
EMBRASURE
An embrace. [Obs.] "Our locked embrasures."" Shak.
EMBRAWN
To harden. [Obs.]It will embrawn and iron-crust his flesh. Nash.
EMBREAD
To braid. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMBREATHEMENT
The act of breathing in; inspiration. [R.]The special and immediate suggestion, embreathement, and dictation ofthe Holy Ghost. W. Lee.
EMBREW
To imbrue; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMBRIGHT
To brighten. [Obs.]
EMBROCATE
To moisten and rub (a diseased part) with a liquid substance,as with spirit, oil, etc., by means of a cloth or sponge.
EMBROGLIO
See Imbroglio.
EMBROIDER
To ornament with needlework; as, to embroider a scarf.Thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen. Ex. xxviii. 39.
EMBROIDERER
One who embroiders.
EMBROIL
See Embroilment.
EMBROILER
One who embroils.
EMBROILMENT
The act of embroiling, or the condition of being embroiled;entanglement in a broil. Bp. Burnet.
EMBROTHEL
To inclose in a brothel. [Obs.] Donne.
EMBROWN
To give a brown color to; to imbrown.Summer suns embrown the laboring swain. Fenton.
EMBRUE
See Imbrue, Embrew. [Obs.]
EMBRUTE
To brutify; to imbrute.All the man embruted in the swine. Cawthorn.
EMBRYO
The first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant;as:(a) The young of an animal in the womb, or more specifically, beforeits parts are developed and it becomes a fetus (see Fetus).(b) The germ of the plant, which is inclosed in the seed and which isdeveloped by germination. In embryo, in an incipient or undevelopedstate; in conception, but not yet executed. "The company littlesuspected what a noble work I had then in embryo." Swift.
EMBRYO SAC
See under Embryonic.
EMBRYOGENIC
Pertaining to the development of an embryo.
EMBRYOGENY
The production and development of an embryo.
EMBRYOGONY
The formation of an embryo.
EMBRYOGRAPHY
The general description of embryos.
EMBRYOLOGIST
One skilled in embryology.
EMBRYOLOGY
The science which relates to the formation and development ofthe embryo in animals and plants; a study of the gradual developmentof the ovum until it reaches the adult stage.
EMBRYON
See Embryo.
EMBRYONAL
Pertaining to an embryo, or the initial state of any organ;embryonic.
EMBRYONARY
Embryonic.
EMBRYONIC
Of or pertaining to an embryo; embryonal; rudimentary.Embryonic sac or vesicle (Bot.), the vesicle within which the embryois developed in the ovule; -- sometimes called also amnios sac, andembryonal sac.
EMBRYONIFEROUS
Having an embryo.
EMBRYONIFORM
Like an embryo in form.
EMBRYOPLASTIC
Relating to, or aiding in, the formation of an embryo; as,embryoplastic cells.
EMBRYOTIC
Embryonic.
EMBRYOTOMY
The cutting a fetus into pieces within the womb, so as toeffect its removal.
EMBRYOTROPH
The material from which an embryo is formed and nourished.
EMBRYOUS
Embryonic; undeveloped. [R.]
EMBULK
To enlarge in the way of bulk. [R.] Latham.
EMBURSE
To furnish with money; to imburse. [Obs.]
EMBUSH
To place or hide in a thicket; to ambush. [Obs.] Shelton.
EMBUSHMENT
An ambush. [Obs.]
EMBUSY
To employ. [Obs.] Skelton.
EME
An uncle. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMEER
Same as Emir.
EMENAGOGUE
See Emmenagogue.
EMEND
To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to makecorrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textualcriticism, generally verbal.
EMENDABLE
Corrigible; amendable. [R.] Bailey.
EMENDATELY
Without fault; correctly. [Obs.]
EMENDATOR
One who emends or critically edits.
EMENDATORY
Pertaining to emendation; corrective. "Emendatory criticism.""Johnson.
EMENDER
One who emends.
EMENDICATE
To beg. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EMERALD
A precious stone of a rich green color, a variety of beryl. SeeBeryl.
EMERALDINE
A green compound used as a dyestuff, produced from aniline bluewhen acted upon by acid.
EMERAUD
An emerald. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMERGE
To rise out of a fluid; to come forth from that in whichanything has been plunged, enveloped, or concealed; to issue andappear; as, to emerge from the water or the ocean; the sun emergesfrom behind the moon in an eclipse; to emerge from poverty orobscurity. "Thetis . . . emerging from the deep." Dryden.Those who have emerged from very low, some from the lowest, classesof society. Burke.
EMERGENCE
The act of rising out of a fluid, or coming forth fromenvelopment or concealment, or of rising into view; sudden uprisal orappearance.The white color of all refracted light, at its very first emergence .. . is compounded of various colors. Sir I. Newton.When from the deep thy bright emergence sprung. H. Brooke.
EMERITED
Considered as having done sufficient public service, andtherefore honorably discharged. [Obs.] Evelyn.
EMERITUS
Honorably discharged from the performance of public duty onaccount of age, infirmity, or long and faithful services; -- said ofan officer of a college or pastor of a church.
EMERSED
Standing out of, or rising above, water. Gray.
EMERSION
The reappearance of a heavenly body after an eclipse oroccultation; as, the emersion of the moon from the shadow of theearth; the emersion of a star from behind the moon.
EMERY
Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts forgrinding and polishing hard substances. Native emery is mixed withmore or less magnetic iron. See the Note under Corundum. Emery board,cardboard pulp mixed with emery and molded into convenient.-- Emery cloth or paper, cloth or paper on which the powder of emeryis spread and glued for scouring and polishing.-- Emery wheel, a wheel containing emery, or having a surface ofemery. In machine shops, it is sometimes called a buff wheel, and bythe manufacturers of cutlery, a glazer.
EMESIS
A vomiting.
EMETIC
Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge itscontents by the mouth.-- n.
EMETICAL
Inducing to vomit; producing vomiting; emetic.-- E*met"ic*al*ly, adv.
EMETINE
A white crystalline bitter alkaloid extracted from ipecacuanharoot, and regarded as its peculiar emetic principle.
EMETO-CATHARTIC
Producing vomiting and purging at the same time.
EMEUTE
A seditious tumult; an outbreak.
EMFORTH
According to; conformably to. [Obs.] Chaucer. Emforth my might,so far as lies in my power. [Obs.]
EMGALLA
The South African wart hog. See Wart hog.
EMICANT
Beaming forth; flashing. [R.]Which emicant did this and that way dart. Blackmore.
EMICATION
A flying off in small particles, as heated iron or fermentingliquors; a sparkling; scintillation. Sir T. Browne.
EMICTORY
Diuretic.
EMIGRANT
One who emigrates, or quits one country or region to settle inanother.
EMIGRATE
To remove from one country or State to another, for the purposeof residence; to migrate from home.Forced to emigrate in a body to America. Macaulay.They [the Huns] were emigrating from Tartary into Europe in the timeof the Goths. J. H. Newman.
EMIGRATIONAL
Relating to emigration.
EMIGRATIONIST
An advocate or promoter of emigration.
EMIGRATOR
One who emigrates; am emigrant. [R.]
EMIGRE
One of the natives of France who were opposed to the firstRevolution, and who left their country in consequence.
EMINENCY
State of being eminent; eminence. "Eminency of estate."Tillotson.
EMINENTLY
In an eminent manner; in a high degree; conspicuously; as, tobe eminently learned.
EMISSARY
An agent employed to advance, in a covert manner, the interestsof his employers; one sent out by any power that is at war withanother, to create dissatisfaction among the people of the latter.Buzzing emissaries fill the ears Of listening crowds with jealousiesand fears. Dryden.
EMISSARYSHIP
The office of an emissary.
EMISSITIOUS
Looking, or narrowly examining; prying. [Obs.] "Thoseemissitious eyes." Bp. Hall.
EMISSIVE
Sending out; emitting; as, emissive powers.
EMISSIVITY
Tendency to emission; comparative facility of emission, or rateat which emission takes place, as of heat from the surface of aheated body.
EMISSORY
Same as Emissary, a., 2.
EMITTENT
Sending forth; emissive. Boyle.
EMMANTLE
To cover over with, or as with, a mantle; to put about as aprotection. [Obs.] Holland.
EMMANUEL
See Immanuel. Matt. i. 23.
EMMARBLE
To turn to marble; to harden. [Obs.]Thou dost emmarble the proud heart. Spenser.
EMMENAGOGUE
A medicine that promotes the menstrual discharge.
EMMET
An ant. Emmet hunter (Zoรถl.), the wryneck.
EMMETROPIA
That refractive condition of the eye in which the rays of lightare all brought accurately and without undue effort to a focus uponthe retina; -- opposed to hypermetropia, myopia, an astigmatism.
EMMETROPIC
Pertaining to, or characterized by, emmetropia.The normal or emmetropic eye adjusts itself perfectly for alldistances. J. Le Conte.
EMMETROPY
Same as Emmetropia.
EMMEW
To mew or coop up. [Obs.] Shak.
EMMOVE
To move; to rouse; to excite. [Obs.]
EMODIN
An orange-red crystalline substance, C15H10O5, obtained fromthe buckthorn, rhubarb, etc., and regarded as a derivative ofanthraquinone; -- so called from a species of rhubarb (Rheum emodei).
EMOLLESCENCE
That degree of softness in a body beginning to melt whichalters its shape; the first or lowest degree of fusibility.
EMOLLIATE
To soften; to render effeminate.Emolliated by four centuries of Roman domination, the Belgic colonieshad forgotten their pristine valor. Pinkerton.
EMOLLIENT
Softening; making supple; acting as an emollient. "Emollientapplications." Arbuthnot.
EMOLLITION
The act of softening or relaxing; relaxation. Bacon.
EMOLUMENT
The profit arising from office, employment, or labor; gain;compensation; advantage; perquisites, fees, or salary.A long . . . enjoyment of the emoluments of office. Bancroft.
EMOLUMENTAL
Pertaining to an emolument; profitable. [R.] Evelyn.
EMOTION
A moving of the mind or soul; excitement of the feelings,whether pleasing or painful; disturbance or agitation of mind causedby a specific exciting cause and manifested by some sensible effecton the body.How different the emotions between departure and return! W. Irving.Some vague emotion of delight. Tennyson.
EMOTIONAL
Pertaining to, or characterized by, emotion; excitable; easilymoved; sensational; as, an emotional nature.
EMOTIONALISM
The cultivation of an emotional state of mind; tendency toregard things in an emotional manner.
EMOTIONALIZE
To give an emotional character to.Brought up in a pious family where religion was not talked aboutemotionalized, but was accepted as the rule of thought and conduct.Froude.
EMOTIONED
Affected with emotion. [R.] "The emotioned soul." Sir W. Scott.
EMOTIVE
Attended by, or having the character of, emotion. H. Brooke.-- E*mo"tive*ly, adv.
EMOTIVENESS
Susceptibility to emotion. G. Eliot.
EMOTIVITY
Emotiveness. Hickok.
EMOVE
To move. [Obs.] Thomson.
EMPAIR
To impair. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMPAISTIC
Having to do with inlaid work; -- especially used withreference to work of the ancient Greeks.
EMPALE
To make pale. [Obs.]No bloodless malady empales their face. G. Fletcher.
EMPALEMENT
Same as Impalement.
EMPANEL
A list of jurors; a panel. [Obs.] Cowell.
EMPANOPLIED
Completely armed; panoplied. Tennyson.
EMPARADISE
Same as Imparadise.
EMPARK
To make a park of; to inclose, as with a fence; to impark.[Obs.]
EMPARLANCE
Parley; imparlance. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMPASM
A perfumed powder sprinkled upon the body to mask the odor ofsweat.
EMPASSION
To move with passion; to affect strongly. See Impassion. [Obs.]Those sights empassion me full near. Spenser.
EMPASSIONATE
Strongly affected. [Obs.]The Briton Prince was sore empassionate. Spenser.
EMPAWN
To put in pawn; to pledge; to impawn.To sell, empawn, and alienate the estates. Milman.
EMPEACH
To hinder. See Impeach. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMPEARL
To form like pearls; to decorate with, or as with, pearls; toimpearl.
EMPEOPLE
To form into a people or community; to inhabit; to people.[Obs.]We now know 't is very well empeopled. Sir T. Browne.
EMPERESS
See Empress. [Obs.]
EMPERICE
An empress. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EMPERIL
To put in peril. See Imperil. Spenser.
EMPERISHED
Perished; decayed. [Obs.]I deem thy brain emperished be. Spenser.
EMPEROR
The sovereign or supreme monarch of an empire; -- a title ofdignity superior to that of king; as, the emperor of Germany or ofAustria; the emperor or Czar of Russia. Emperor goose (Zoรถl.), alarge and handsome goose (Philacte canagica), found in Alaska.-- Emperor moth (Zoรถl.), one of several large and beautiful bombycidmoths, with transparent spots on the wings; as the American Cecropiamoth (Platysamia cecropia), and the European species (Saturniapavonia).-- Emperor paper. See under Paper.-- Purple emperor (Zoรถl.), a large, strong British butterfly(Apatura iris).
EMPERORSHIP
The rank or office of an emperor.
EMPERY
Empire; sovereignty; dominion. [Archaic] Shak.Struggling for my woman's empery. Mrs. Browning.
EMPHASIS
A particular stress of utterance, or force of voice, given inreading and speaking to one or more words whose signification thespeaker intends to impress specially upon his audience.The province of emphasis is so much more important than accent, thatthe customary seat of the latter is changed, when the claims ofemphasis require it. E. Porter.
EMPHASIZE
To utter or pronounce with a particular stress of voice; tomake emphatic; as, to emphasize a word or a phrase.
EMPHATICALNESS
The quality of being emphatic; emphasis.
EMPHRACTIC
Having the quality of closing the pores of the skin.
EMPHRENSY
To madden. [Obs.]
EMPHYSEMA
A swelling produced by gas or air diffused in the cellulartissue. Emphysema of the lungs, Pulmonary emphysema (Med.), a commondisease of the lungs in which the air cells are distended and theirpartition walls ruptured by an abnormal pressure of the air containedin them.
EMPHYSEMATOUS
Pertaining to, or of the nature of, emphysema; swelled;bloated.
EMPHYTEUSIS
A real right, susceptible of assignment and of descent, chargedon productive real estate, the right being coupled with the enjoymentof the property on condition of taking care of the estate and payingtaxes, and sometimes a small rent. Heumann.
EMPHYTEUTIC
Of or pertaining to an emphyteusis; as, emphyteutic lands.
EMPHYTEUTICARY
One who holds lands by emphyteusis.
EMPIERCE
To pierce; to impierce. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMPIGHT
Fixed; settled; fastened. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMPIRE STATE
New York; -- a nickname alluding to its size and wealth.
EMPIRE STATE OF THE SOUTH
Georgia; -- a nickname.
EMPIRE STATE OF THE WEST
Missouri; -- a nickname.
EMPIRICALLY
By experiment or experience; without science; in the manner ofquacks.
EMPIRICISM
The philosophical theory which attributes the origin of all ourknowledge to experience.
EMPIRICIST
An empiric.
EMPIRISTIC
Relating to, or resulting from, experience, or experiment;following from empirical methods or data; -- opposed to nativistic.
EMPLACE
To put into place or position; to fix on an emplacement.
EMPLACEMENT
A putting in, or assigning to, a definite place; localization;as, the emplacement of a structure.
EMPLASTER
See Plaster. [Obs.] Wiseman.
EMPLASTIC
Fit to be applied as a plaster; glutinous; adhesive; as,emplastic applications.
EMPLASTRATION
The application of a plaster or salve.
EMPLEAD
To accuse; to indict. See Implead.
EMPLECTION
See Emplecton.
EMPLECTON
A kind of masonry in which the outer faces of the wall areashlar, the space between being filled with broken stone and mortar.Cross layers of stone are interlaid as binders. [R.] Weale.
EMPLORE
See Implore. [Obs.]
EMPLOY
That which engages or occupies a person; fixed or regularservice or business; employment.The whole employ of body and of mind. Pope.In one's employ, in one's service.
EMPLOYABLE
Capable of being employed; capable of being used; fit or properfor use. Boyle.
EMPLOYE
One employed by another; a clerk or workman in the service ofan employer.
EMPLOYEE
One employed by another.
EMPLOYER
One who employs another; as, an employer of workmen.
EMPLUMED
Plumed. [R.]
EMPLUNGE
To plunge; to implunge. [Obs.] Spenser.
EMPOISON
To poison; to impoison. Shak.
EMPOISONER
Poisoner. [Obs.] Bacon.
EMPOISONMENT
The act of poisoning. Bacon.
EMPORIUM
The brain. [Obs.]
EMPOVERISH
See Impoverish.
EMPRESSEMENT
Demonstrative warmth or cordiality of manner; display ofenthusiasm.
EMPRINT
See Imprint.
EMPRISE
To undertake. [Obs.] Sackville.
EMPRISING
Full of daring; adventurous. [Archaic] T. Campbell.
EMPRISON
See Imprison.
EMPROSTHOTONOS
A drawing of the body forward, in consequence of the spasmodicaction of some of the muscles. Gross.
EMPTE
To empty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EMPTIER
One who, or that which, empties.
EMPTION
The act of buying. [R.] Arbuthnot.
EMPTIONAL
Capable of being purchased.
EMPTY
An empty box, crate, cask, etc.; -- used in commerce, esp. intransportation of freight; as, "special rates for empties."
EMPTYING
The lees of beer, cider, etc.; yeast. [U.S.]
EMPUGN
See Impugn.
EMPURPLE
To tinge or dye of a purple color; to color with purple; toimpurple. "The deep empurpled ran." Philips.
EMPUSE
A phantom or specter. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
EMPUZZLE
To puzzle. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne.
EMPYEMA
A collection of blood, pus, or other fluid, in some cavity ofthe body, especially that of the pleura. Dunglison.
EMPYESIS
An eruption of pustules.
EMPYREAL
Formed of pure fire or light; refined beyond aรซrial substance;pertaining to the highest and purest region of heaven.Go, soar with Plato to the empyreal sphere. Pope.Empyreal air, oxygen gas.
EMPYREAN
The highest heaven, where the pure element of fire was supposedby the ancients to subsist.The empyrean rung With hallelujahs. Milton.
EMPYREUMA
The peculiar smell and taste arising from products ofdecomposition of animal or vegetable substances when burnt in closevessels.
EMPYREUMATIZE
To render empyreumatic. [R.]
EMPYRICAL
Containing the combustible principle of coal. Kirwan.
EMPYROSIS
A general fire; a conflagration. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
EMRODS
See Emerods. [Obs.]
EMU
A large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novรฆ-Hollandiรฆ and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and theostrich. The emu runs swiftly, but is unable to fly. [Written alsoemeu and emew.]
EMU WREN
A small wrenlike Australian bird (Stipiturus malachurus),having the tail feathers long and loosely barbed, like emu feathers.
EMULABLE
Capable of being emulated. [R.]Some imitable and emulable good. Abp. Leighton.
EMULATE
Striving to excel; ambitious; emulous. [Obs.] "A most emulatepride." Shak.
EMULATIVE
Inclined to emulation; aspiring to competition; rivaling; as,an emulative person or effort. "Emulative zeal." Hoole.
EMULATIVELY
In an emulative manner; with emulation.
EMULATOR
One who emulates, or strives to equal or surpass.As Virgil rivaled Homer, Milton was the emulator of both. Bp.Warburton.
EMULATORY
Pertaining to emulation; connected with rivalry. [R.]"Emulatory officiousness." Bp. Hall.
EMULATRESS
A female emulator. [R.]
EMULE
To emulate. [Obs.] "Emuled of many." Spenser.
EMULGE
To milk out; to drain. [Obs.] Bailey.
EMULGENT
Pertaining to the kidneys; renal; as, emulgent arteries andveins.-- n.
EMULOUSLY
In an emulous manner.
EMULOUSNESS
The quality of being emulous.
EMULSIC
Pertaining to, or produced from, emulsin; as, emulsic acid.Hoblyn.
EMULSIFY
To convert into an emulsion; to form an emulsion; to reducefrom an oily substance to a milky fluid in which the fat globules arein a very finely divided state, giving it the semblance of solution;as, the pancreatic juice emulsifies the oily part of food.
EMULSION
Any liquid preparation of a color and consistency resemblingmilk; as: (a) In pharmacy, an extract of seeds, or a mixture of oiland water united by a mucilaginous substance. (b) In photography, aliquid preparation of collodion holding salt of silver, used in thephotographic process.
EMUNCTORY
Any organ or part of the body (as the kidneys, skin, etc.,)which serves to carry off excrementitious or waste matter.
EMUSCATION
A freeing from moss. [Obs.]
EMYD
A fresh-water tortoise of the family Emydidรฆ.
EMYDEA
A group of chelonians which comprises many species of fresh-water tortoises and terrapins.
EN
Half an em, that is, half of the unit of space in measuringprinted matter. See Em.
EN BLOC
In a lump; as a whole; all together. "Movement of the ossiclesen bloc."  Nature.
EN PASSANT
In passing; in the course of any procedure; -- said specif.(Chess),
EN RAPPORT
In accord, harmony, or sympathy; having a mutual, esp. aprivate, understanding; of a hypnotic subject, being in such a mentalstate as to be especially subject to the influence of a particularperson or persons.
EN ROUTE
On the way or road.
EN-
A prefix signifying in or into, used in many English words,chiefly those borrowed from the French. Some English words arewritten indifferently with en- or in-. For ease of pronunciation itis commonly changed to em- before p, b, and m, as in employ, embody,emmew. It is sometimes used to give a causal force, as in enable,enfeeble, to cause to be, or to make, able, or feeble; and sometimesmerely gives an intensive force, as in enchasten. See In-.
ENABLEMENT
The act of enabling, or the state of being enabled; ability.Bacon.
ENACT
Purpose; determination. [Obs.]
ENACTIVE
Having power to enact or establish as a law. Abp. Bramhall.
ENACTOR
One who enacts a law; one who decrees or establishes as a law.Atterbury.
ENACTURE
Enactment; resolution. [Obs.] Shak.
ENALIOSAUR
One of the Enaliosauria.
ENALIOSAURIA
An extinct group of marine reptiles, embracing both theIchthyosauria and the Plesiosauria, now regarded as distinct orders.
ENALIOSAURIAN
Pertaining to the Enaliosauria.-- n.
ENALLAGE
A substitution, as of one part of speech for another, of onegender, number, case, person, tense, mode, or voice, of the sameword, for another.
ENAMBUSH
To ambush. [Obs.]
ENAMEL
A glassy, opaque bead obtained by the blowpipe.
ENAMELAR
Consisting of enamel; resembling enamel; smooth; glossy. [R.]Craig.
ENAMELED
Coated or adorned with enamel; having a glossy or variegatedsurface; glazed. [Written also enamelled.]
ENAMOR
To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, orwith, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; tobe enamored of books or science. [Written also enamour.]Passionately enamored of this shadow of a dream. W. Irving.
ENAMORMENT
The state of being enamored. [R.]
ENANTIOMORPHOUS
Similar, but not superposable, i. e., related to each other asa right-handed to a left-handed glove; -- said of certain hemihedralcrystals.
ENANTIOPATHIC
Serving to palliate; palliative. Dunglison.
ENANTIOPATHY
Allopathy; -- a term used by followers of Hahnemann, orhomeopathists.
ENANTIOSIS
A figure of speech by which what is to be understoodaffirmatively is stated negatively, and the contrary; affirmation bycontraries.
ENARCH
To arch. [Obs.] Lydgate.
ENARCHED
Bent into a curve; -- said of a bend or other ordinary.
ENARGITE
An iron-black mineral of metallic luster, occurring in smallorthorhombic crystals, also massive. It contains sulphur, arsenic,copper, and often silver.
ENARMED
Same as Armed, 3.
ENARRATION
A detailed exposition; relation. [Obs.] Hakewill.
ENARTHRODIA
See Enarthrosis.-- En`ar*thro"di*al, a.
ENARTHROSIS
A ball and socket joint, or the kind of articulationrepresented by such a joint. See Articulation.
ENASCENT
Coming into being; nascent. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton.
ENATATION
A swimming out. [Obs.] Bailey.
ENATE
Growing out.
ENATION
Any unusual outgrowth from the surface of a thing, as of apetal; also, the capacity or act of producing such an outgrowth.
ENAUNTER
Lest that. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENAVIGATE
To sail away or over. [Obs.] Cockeram.
ENBATTLED
Embattled. [Obs.]
ENBIBE
To imbibe. [Obs.] Skelton.
ENBROUDE
See Embroude.
ENCAENIA
= Encenia.
ENCAGE
To confine in a cage; to coop up. Shak.
ENCALENDAR
To register in a calendar; to calendar. Drayton.
ENCAMP
To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporaryhabitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, orform huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an armyor a company traveling.The host of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 1Chron. xi. 15.
ENCANKER
To canker. [Obs.]
ENCAPSULATION
The act of inclosing in a capsule; the growth of a membranearound (any part) so as to inclose it in a capsule.
ENCARNALIZE
To carnalize; to make gross. [R.] "Encarnalize their spirits."Tennyson.
ENCARPUS
An ornament on a frieze or capital, consisting of festoons offruit, flowers, leaves, etc. [Written also encarpa.]
ENCASE
To inclose as in a case. See Incase. Beau. & Fl.
ENCASEMENT
An old theory of generation similar to emboOvulist.
ENCASH
To turn into cash; to cash. Sat. Rev.
ENCASHMENT
The payment in cash of a note, draft, etc.
ENCAUMA
An ulcer in the eye, upon the cornea, which causes the loss ofthe humors. Dunglison.
ENCAUSTIC
Prepared by means of heat; burned in. Encaustic painting (FineArts), painting by means of wax with which the colors are combined,and which is afterwards fused with hot irons, thus fixing the colors.-- Encaustic tile (Fine Arts), an earthenware tile which has adecorative pattern and is not wholly of one color.
ENCAVE
To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess. "Do but encaveyourself." Shak.
ENCEINTE
The line of works which forms the main inclosure of a fortressor place; -- called also body of the place.
ENCENIA
A festival commemorative of the founding of a city or theconsecration of a church; also, the ceremonies (as at Oxford andCambridge, England) commemorative of founders or benefactors.
ENCENSE
To offer incense to or upon; to burn incense. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENCEPHALIC
Pertaining to the encephalon or brain.
ENCEPHALITIS
Inflammation of the brain.-- En`ceph*a*lit"ic, a.
ENCEPHALOCELE
Hernia of the brain.
ENCEPHALOID
Resembling the material of the brain; cerebriform. Encephaloidcancer (Med.), a very malignant form of cancer of brainlikeconsistency. See under Cancer.
ENCEPHALOLOGY
The science which treats of the brain, its structure andfunctions.
ENCEPHALON
The contents of the cranium; the brain.
ENCEPHALOPATHY
Any disease or symptoms of disease referable to disorders ofthe brain; as, lead encephalopathy, the cerebral symptoms attendingchronic lead poisoning.
ENCEPHALOS
The encephalon.In man the encephalos reaches its full size about seven years of age.Sir W. Hamilton.
ENCEPHALOTOMY
The act or art of dissecting the brain.
ENCEPHALOUS
Having a head; -- said of most Mollusca; -- opposed toacephalous.
ENCHAFE
To chafe; to enrage; to heat. [Obs.] Shak.
ENCHAFING
Heating; burning. [Obs.]The wicked enchaufing or ardure of this sin [lust]. Chaucer.
ENCHAINMENT
The act of enchaining, or state of being enchained.
ENCHAIR
To seat in a chair. Tennyson.
ENCHANNEL
To make run in a channel. "Its waters were enchanneled." Sir D.Brewster.
ENCHANTED
Under the power of enchantment; possessed or exercised byenchanters; as, an enchanted castle.
ENCHANTER
One who enchants; a sorcerer or magician; also, one whodelights as by an enchantment.Like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing. Shelley.Enchanter's nightshade (Bot.), a genus (Circรฆa) of low inconspicuous,perennial plants, found in damp, shady places.
ENCHANTING
Having a power of enchantment; charming; fascinating.-- En*chant"ing*ly, adv.
ENCHANTRESS
A woman versed in magical arts; a sorceress; also, a woman whofascinates. Shak.
ENCHARGE
To charge (with); to impose (a charge) upon.His countenance would express the spirit and the passion of the parthe was encharged with. Jeffrey.
ENCHASER
One who enchases.
ENCHASTEN
To chasten. [Obs.]
ENCHEST
To inclose in a chest. Vicars.
ENCHIRIDION
Handbook; a manual of devotions. Evelyn.
ENCHISEL
To cut with a chisel.
ENCHODUS
A genus of extinct Cretaceous fishes; -- so named from theirspear-shaped teeth. They were allied to the pike (Esox).
ENCHONDROMA
A cartilaginous tumor growing from the interior of a bone.Quain.
ENCHYLEMMA
The basal substance of the cell nucleus; a hyaline or granularsubstance, more or less fluid during life, in which the other partsof the nucleus are imbedded.
ENCHYMA
The primitive formative juice, from which the tissues,particularly the cellular tissue, are formed.
ENCINCTURE
A cincture. [Poetic]The vast encincture of that gloomy sea. Wordsworth.
ENCINDERED
Burnt to cinders. [R.]
ENCIRCLE
To form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; tosurround; as, to encircle one in the arms; the army encircled thecity.Her brows encircled with his serpent rod. Parnell.
ENCIRCLET
A small circle; a ring. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
ENCLASP
To clasp. See Inclasp.
ENCLAVE
A tract of land or a territory inclosed within anotherterritory of which it is independent. See Exclave. [Recent]
ENCLAVEMENT
The state of being an enclave. [Recent]
ENCLITIC
A word which is joined to another so closely as to lose itsproper accent, as the pronoun thee in prithee (pray thee).
ENCLITICALLY
In an enclitic manner; by throwing the accent back. Walker.
ENCLITICS
The art of declining and conjugating words.
ENCLOISTER
To shut up in a cloister; to cloister.
ENCLOSE
To inclose. See Inclose.
ENCLOSURE
Inclosure. See Inclosure.
ENCLOTHE
To clothe.
ENCLOUD
To envelop in clouds; to cloud. [R.] Spenser.
ENCOACH
To carry in a coach. [R.] Davies (Wit's Pilgr.)
ENCOFFIN
To put in a coffin. [R.]
ENCOLDEN
To render cold. [Obs.]
ENCOLLAR
To furnish or surround with a collar. [R.]
ENCOLOR
To color. [R.]
ENCOLURE
The neck of horse. R. Browning.
ENCOMBER
See Encumber. [Obs.]
ENCOMBERMENT
Hindrance; molestation.[Obs.] Spenser.
ENCOMIAST
One who praises; a panegyrist. Locke.
ENCOMIASTIC
A panegyric. B. Jonson.
ENCOMION
Encomium; panegyric. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
ENCOMIUM
Warm or high praise; panegyric; strong commendation.His encomiums awakened all my ardor. W. Irving.
ENCOMPASS
To circumscribe or go round so as to surround closely; toencircle; to inclose; to environ; as, a ring encompasses the finger;an army encompasses a city; a voyage encompassing the world. Shak.A question may be encompassed with difficulty. C. J. Smith.The love of all thy sons encompass thee. Tennyson.
ENCOMPASSMENT
The act of surrounding, or the state of being surrounded;circumvention.By this encompassment and drift of question. Shak.
ENCORE
Once more; again; -- used by the auditors and spectators ofplays, concerts, and other entertainments, to call for a repetitionof a particular part.
ENCORPORING
Incorporation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENCOUBERT
One of several species of armadillos of the genera Dasypus andEuphractus, having five toes both on the fore and hind feet.
ENCOUNTER
To come against face to face; to meet; to confront, either bychance, suddenly, or deliberately; especially, to meet in oppositionor with hostile intent; to engage in conflict with; to oppose; tostruggle with; as, to encounter a friend in traveling; two armiesencounter each other; to encounter obstacles or difficulties, toencounter strong evidence of a truth.Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoics,encountered him. Acts xvii. 18.I am most fortunate thus accidentally to encounter you. Shak.
ENCOUNTERER
One who encounters; an opponent; an antagonist. Atterbury.
ENCOURAGE
To give courage to; to inspire with courage, spirit, or hope;to raise, or to increase, the confidence of; to animate; enhearten;to incite; to help forward; -- the opposite of discourage.David encouraged himself in the Lord. 1 Sam. xxx. 6.
ENCOURAGER
One who encourages, incites, or helps forward; a favorer.The pope is . . . a great encourager of arts. Addison.
ENCOURAGING
Furnishing ground to hope; inspiriting; favoring.-- En*cour"a*ging*ly, adv.
ENCOWL
To make a monk (or wearer of a cowl) of. [R.] Drayton.
ENCRADLE
To lay in a cradle.
ENCRATITE
One of a sect in the 2d century who abstained from marriage,wine, and animal food; -- called also Continent.
ENCREASE
i. [Obs.] See Increase.
ENCRIMSON
To give a crimson or red color to; to crimson. Shak.
ENCRINITE
A fossil crinoid, esp. one belonging to, or resembling, thegenus Encrinus. Sometimes used in a general sense for any crinoid.
ENCRINOIDEA
That order of the Crinoidea which includes most of the livingand many fossil forms, having jointed arms around the margin of theoral disk; -- also called Brachiata and Articulata. See Illusts.under Comatula and Crinoidea.
ENCRINUS
A genus of fossil encrinoidea, from the Mesozoic rocks.
ENCRISPED
Curled. [Obs.] Skelton.
ENCROACH
To enter by gradual steps or by stealth into the possessions orrights of another; to trespass; to intrude; to trench; -- commonlywith on or upon; as, to encroach on a neighbor; to encroach on thehighway.No sense, faculty, or member must encroach upon or interfere with theduty and office of another. South.Superstition, . . . a creeping and encroaching evil. Hooker.Exclude the encroaching cattle from thy ground. Dryden.
ENCROACHER
One who by gradual steps enters on, and takes possession of,what is not his own.
ENCROACHINGLY
By way of encroachment.
ENCROACHMENT
An unlawful diminution of the possessions of another.
ENCRUST
To incrust. See Incrust.
ENCRUSTMENT
That which is formed as a crust; incrustment; incrustation.Disengaging truth from its encrustment of error. I. Taylor.
ENCUMBERMENT
Encumbrance. [R.]
ENCUMBRANCE
Same as Incumbrance.
ENCUMBRANCER
Same as Incumbrancer.
ENCURTAIN
To inclose with curtains.
ENCYCLOPEDIACAL
Encyclopedic.
ENCYCLOPEDIAN
Embracing the whole circle of learning, or a wide range ofsubjects.
ENCYCLOPEDISM
The art of writing or compiling encyclopedias; also, possessionof the whole range of knowledge; encyclopedic learning.
ENCYCLOPEDIST
The compiler of an encyclopedia, or one who assists in suchcompilation; also, one whose knowledge embraces the whole range ofthe sciences. The Encyclopedists, the writers of the great Frenchencyclopedia which appeared in 1751-1772. The editors were Diderotand D'Alembert. Among the contributors were Voltaire and Rousseau.
ENCYST
To inclose in a cyst.
ENCYSTATION
Encystment.
ENCYSTED
Inclosed in a cyst, or a sac, bladder, or vesicle; as, anencysted tumor.The encysted venom, or poison bag, beneath the adder's fang.Coleridge.
ENCYSTMENT
A process which, among some of the lower forms of life,precedes reproduction by budding, fission, spore formation, etc.
END
One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a Brussels carpet.
ENDABLE
That may be ended; terminable.
ENDAMAGE
To bring loss or damage to; to harm; to injure. [R.]The trial hath endamaged thee no way. Milton.
ENDAMAGEABLE
Capable of being damaged, or injured; damageable. [Obs.]
ENDAMAGEMENT
Damage; injury; harm. [Obs.] Shak.
ENDAMNIFY
To damnify; to injure. [R.] Sandys.
ENDANGERMENT
Hazard; peril. Milton.
ENDARK
To darken. [Obs.] Feltham.
ENDASPIDEAN
Having the anterior scutes extending around the tarsus on theinner side; -- said of certain birds.
ENDAZZLE
To dazzle. [Obs.] "Endazzled eyes." Milton.
ENDEAREDLY
With affection or endearment; dearly.
ENDEAREDNESS
State of being endeared.
ENDEARING
Making dear or beloved; causing love.-- En*dear"ing*ly, adv.
ENDEARMENT
The act of endearing or the state of being endeared; also, thatwhich manifests, excites, or increases, affection. "The greatendearments of prudent and temperate speech." Jer. Taylor.Her first endearments twining round the soul. Thomson.
ENDEAVOR
To exert physical or intellectual strength for the attainmentof; to use efforts to effect; to strive to achieve or reach; to try;to attempt.It is our duty to endeavor the recovery of these beneficial subjects.Ld. Chatham.To endeavor one's self, to exert one's self strenuously to thefulfillment of a duty. [Obs.] "A just man that endeavoreth himself toleave all wickedness." Latimer.
ENDEAVORER
One who makes an effort or attempt. [Written also endeavourer.]
ENDEAVORMENT
Act of endeavoring; endeavor. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENDECAGON
A plane figure of eleven sides and angles.
ENDECAGYNOUS
Having eleven pistils; as, an endecagynous flower.
ENDECANE
One of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series, C11H24,found as a constituent of petroleum. [Written also hendecane.]
ENDECAPHYLLOUS
Composed of eleven leaflets; -- said of a leaf.
ENDEICTIC
Serving to show or exhibit; as, an endeictic dialogue, in thePlatonic philosophy, is one which exhibits a specimen of skill.Enfield.
ENDEIXIS
An indication.
ENDEMIAL
Endemic. [R.]
ENDEMIC
An endemic disease.Fear, which is an endemic latent in every human heart, sometimesrises into an epidemic. J. B. Heard.
ENDEMICALLY
In an endemic manner.
ENDEMIOLOGY
The science which treats of endemic affections.
ENDENIZATION
The act of naturalizing. [R.]
ENDENIZE
To endenizen. [Obs.]
ENDENIZEN
To admit to the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize. [Obs.]B. Jonson.
ENDER
One who, or that which, makes an end of something; as, theender of my life.
ENDERMATIC
Endermic.
ENDERMIC
Acting through the skin, or by direct application to the skin.Endermic method, that in which the medicine enters the system throughthe skin, being applied either to the sound skin, or to the surfacedenuded of the cuticle by a blister.
ENDERMICALLY
By the endermic method; as, applied endermically.
ENDERON
The deep sensitive and vascular layer of the skin and mucousmembranes.-- En`de*ron"ic, a.
ENDIADEMED
Diademed. [R.]
ENDIAPER
To decorate with a diaper pattern.
ENDICT
See Indict.
ENDICTMENT
See Indictment.
ENDING
The final syllable or letter of a word; the part joined to thestem. See 3d Case, 5. Ending day, day of death. Chaucer.
ENDITE
See Indite. Spenser.
ENDIVE
A composite herb (Cichorium Endivia). Its finely divided andmuch curled leaves, when blanched, are used for salad. Wild endive(Bot.), chicory or succory.
ENDLESSLY
In an endless manner.
ENDLESSNESS
The quality of being endless; perpetuity.
ENDLONG
Lengthwise; along. [Archaic]The doors were all of adamants eterne, I-clenched overthwart andendelong With iron tough. Chaucer.He pricketh endelong the large space. Chaucer.To thrust the raft endlong across the moat. Sir W. Scott.
ENDMOST
Farthest; remotest; at the very end. Tylor.
ENDOBLAST
Entoblast; endoplast. See Nucleus,
ENDOBLASTIC
Relating to the endoblast; as, the endoblastic layer.
ENDOCARDITIS
Inflammation of the endocardium.
ENDOCARDIUM
The membrane lining the cavities of the heart.
ENDOCARP
The inner layer of a ripened or fructified ovary.
ENDOCHONDRAL
Growing or developing within cartilage; -- applied esp. todeveloping bone.
ENDOCHROME
The coloring matter within the cells of plants, whether green,red, yellow, or any other color.
ENDOCTRINE
To teach; to indoctrinate. [Obs.] Donne.
ENDOCYST
The inner layer of the cells of Bryozoa.
ENDODERM
Of or pertaining to the endoderm.
ENDODERMIS
A layer of cells forming a kind of cuticle inside of the propercortical layer, or surrounding an individual fibrovascular bundle.
ENDOGAMOUS
Marrying within the same tribe; -- opposed to exogamous.
ENDOGAMY
Marriage only within the tribe; a custom restricting a man inhis choice of a wife to the tribe to which he belongs; -- opposed toexogamy.
ENDOGEN
A plant which increases in size by internal growth andelongation at the summit, having the wood in the form of bundles orthreads, irregularly distributed throughout the whole diameter, notforming annual layers, and with no distinct pith. The leaves of theendogens have, usually, parallel veins, their flowers are mostly inthree, or some multiple of three, parts, and their embryos have but asingle cotyledon, with the first leaves alternate. The endogensconstitute one of the great primary classes of plants, and includedall palms, true lilies, grasses, rushes, orchids, the banana,pineapple, etc. See Exogen.
ENDOGENESIS
Endogeny.
ENDOGENETIC
Endogenous.
ENDOGENOUS
Increasing by internal growth and elongation at the summit,instead of externally, and having no distinction of pith, wood, andbark, as the rattan, the palm, the cornstalk.
ENDOGENOUSLY
By endogenous growth.
ENDOGENY
Growth from within; multiplication of cells by endogenousdivision, as in the development of one or more cells in the interiorof a parent cell.
ENDOGNATH
The inner or principal branch of the oral appendages ofCrustacea. See Maxilla.
ENDOGNATHAL
Pertaining to the endognath.
ENDOLYMPH
The watery fluid contained in the membranous labyrinth of theinternal ear.
ENDOLYMPHANGIAL
Within a lymphatic vessel.
ENDOME
To cover as with a dome.
ENDOMETRITIS
Inflammation of the endometrium.
ENDOMETRIUM
The membrane lining the inner surface of the uterus, or womb.
ENDOMORPH
A crystal of one species inclosed within one of another, as oneof rutile inclosed in quartz.
ENDOMYSIUM
The delicate bands of connective tissue interspersed amongmuscular fibers.
ENDONEURIUM
The delicate bands of connective tissue among nerve fibers.
ENDOPARASITE
Any parasite which lives in the internal organs of an animal,as the tapeworms, Trichina, etc.; -- opposed to ectoparasite. SeeEntozoรถn.-- En`do*par`a*sit"ic, a.
ENDOPHLOEUM
The inner layer of the bark of trees.
ENDOPHRAGMA
A chitinous structure above the nervous cord in the thorax ofcertain Crustacea.
ENDOPHRAGMAL
Of or pertaining to the endophragma.
ENDOPHYLLOUS
Wrapped up within a leaf or sheath.
ENDOPLASM
The protoplasm in the interior of a cell.
ENDOPLASMA
Same as Entoplasm and Endosarc.
ENDOPLAST
See Nucleus.
ENDOPLASTICA
A group of Rhizopoda having a distinct nucleus, as the am
ENDOPLASTULE
See Nucleolus.
ENDOPLEURA
The inner coating of a seed. See Tegmen.
ENDOPLEURITE
The portion of each apodeme developed from the interepimeralmembrane in certain crustaceans.
ENDOPODITE
The internal or principal branch of the locomotive appendagesof Crustacea. See Maxilliped.
ENDORHIZA
Any monocotyledonous plant; -- so named because manymonocotyledons have an endorhizal embryo.
ENDORSE
Same as Indorse.
ENDORSEE
Same as Indorsee.
ENDORSEMENT
Same as Indorsement.
ENDORSER
Same as Indorser.
ENDOSARC
The semifluid, granular interior of certain unicellularorganisms, as the inner layer of sarcode in the amoeba; entoplasm;endoplasta.
ENDOSCOPE
An instrument for examining the interior of the rectum, theurethra, and the bladder.
ENDOSCOPY
The art or process of examining by means of the endoscope.
ENDOSKELETAL
Pertaining to, or connected with, the endoskeleton; as,endoskeletal muscles.
ENDOSKELETON
The bony, cartilaginous, or other internal framework of ananimal, as distinguished from the exoskeleton.
ENDOSMOMETER
An instrument for measuring the force or amount of endosmoticaction.
ENDOSMOMETRIC
Pertaining to, or designed for, the measurement of endosmoticaction.
ENDOSMOSMIC
Endosmotic.
ENDOSMOTIC
Pertaining to endosmose; of the nature endosmose; osmotic.Carpenter.
ENDOSPERM
The albumen of a seed; -- limited by recent writers to thatformed within the embryo sac.
ENDOSPERMIC
Relating to, accompanied by, or containing, endosperm.
ENDOSPORE
The thin inner coat of certain spores.
ENDOSPOROUS
Having the spores contained in a case; -- applied to fungi.
ENDOSS
To put upon the back or outside of anything; -- the olderspelling of endorse. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENDOSTEAL
Relating to endostosis; as, endosteal ossification.
ENDOSTERNITE
The part of each apodeme derived from the intersternal membranein Crustacea and insects.
ENDOSTEUM
The layer of vascular connective tissue lining the medullarycavities of bone.
ENDOSTOMA
A plate which supports the labrum in certain Crustacea.
ENDOSTOME
The foramen or passage through the inner integument of anovule.
ENDOSTOSIS
A process of bone formation in which ossification takes placewithin the substance of the cartilage.
ENDOSTYLE
A fold of the endoderm, which projects into the blood cavity ofascidians. See Tunicata.
ENDOTHECA
The tissue which partially fills the interior of theinterseptal chambers of most madreporarian corals. It usuallyconsists of a series of oblique tranverse septa, one above another.-- En`do*the"cal, a.
ENDOTHECIUM
The inner lining of an another cell.
ENDOTHELIAL
Of, or relating to, endothelium.
ENDOTHELIUM
The thin epithelium lining the blood vessels, lymphatics, andserous cavities. See Epithelium.
ENDOTHELOID
Like endothelium.
ENDOTHERMIC
Designating, or pert. to, a reaction which occurs withabsorption of heat; formed by such a reaction; as, an endothermicsubstance; -- opposed to exothermic.
ENDOTHORAX
An internal process of the sternal plates in the thorax ofinsects.
ENDOWER
To endow. [Obs.] Waterhouse.
ENDOZOA
See Entozoa.
ENDRUDGE
To make a drudge or slave of. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ENDUE
To invest. Latham.Tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power fromon high. Luke xxiv. 49.Endue them . . . with heavenly gifts. Book of Common Prayer.
ENDUEMENT
Act of enduing; induement.
ENDURABLE
Capable of being endured or borne; sufferable. Macaulay.-- En*dur"a*ble*ness, n.
ENDURABLY
In an endurable manner.
ENDURANT
Capable of enduring fatigue, pain, hunger, etc.The ibex is a remarkably endurant animal. J. G. Wood.
ENDUREMENT
Endurance. [Obs.] South.
ENDURER
One who, or that which, endures or lasts; one who bears,suffers, or sustains.
ENDURING
Lasting; durable; long-suffering; as, an enduring disposition."A better and enduring substance." Heb. x. 34.-- En*dur"ing*ly, adv. T. Arnold.-- En*dur"ing*ness, n.
ENDYMA
See Ependyma.
ENDYSIS
The act of developing a new coat of hair, a new set offeathers, scales, etc.; -- opposed to ecdysis.
ENECATE
To kill off; to destroy. [Obs.] Harvey.
ENEID
Same as รneid.
ENEMA
An injection, or clyster, thrown into the rectum as a medicine,or to impart nourishment. Hoblyn.
ENEMY
One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attemptsthe injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to aperson; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood.To all good he enemy was still. Spenser.I say unto you, Love your enemies. Matt. v. 44.The enemy (Mil.), the hostile force. In this sense it is construedwith the verb and pronoun either in the singular or the plural, butmore commonly in the singular; as, we have met the enemy and he isours or they are ours.It was difficult in such a country to track the enemy. It wasimpossible to drive him to bay. Macaulay.
ENEPIDERMIC
Applied to the skin without friction; -- said of medicines.
ENERGETICS
That branch of science which treats of the laws governing thephysical or mechanical, in distinction from the vital, forces, andwhich comprehends the consideration and general investigation of thewhole range of the forces concerned in physical phenomena. [R.]
ENERGIZE
To use strength in action; to act or operate with force orvigor; to act in producing an effect.Of all men it is true that they feel and energize first, they reflectand judge afterwards. J. C. Shairp.
ENERGIZER
One who, or that which, gives energy, or acts in producing aneffect.
ENERGIZING
Capable of imparting or exercising energy.Those nobler exercises of energizing love. Bp. Horsley.
ENERGUMEN
One possessed by an evil spirit; a demoniac.
ENERGY
Capacity for performing work.
ENERVATE
To deprive of nerve, force, strength, or courage; to renderfeeble or impotent; to make effeminate; to impair the moral powersof.A man . . . enervated by licentiousness. Macaulay.And rhyme began t' enervate poetry. Dryden.
ENERVATIVE
Having power, or a tendency, to enervate; weakening. [R.]
ENERVE
To weaken; to enervate. [Obs.] Milton.
ENERVOUS
Lacking nerve or force; enervated. [R.]
ENFAMISH
To famish; to starve.
ENFECT
Contaminated with illegality. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENFEEBLE
To make feeble; to deprive of strength; to reduce the strengthor force of; to weaken; to debilitate.Enfeebled by scanty subsistence and excessive toil. Prescott.
ENFEEBLEMENT
The act of weakening; enervation; weakness.
ENFEEBLER
One who, or that which, weakens or makes feeble.
ENFEEBLISH
To enfeeble. [Obs.] Holland.
ENFELONED
Rendered fierce or frantic. [Obs.] "Like one enfeloned ordistraught." Spenser.
ENFEOFF
To give a feud, or right in land, to; to invest with a fief orfee; to invest (any one) with a freehold estate by the process offeoffment. Mozley & W.
ENFESTER
To fester. [Obs.] "Enfestered sores." Davies (Holy Roode).
ENFETTER
To bind in fetters; to enchain. "Enfettered to her love." Shak.
ENFEVER
To excite fever in. [R.] A. Seward.
ENFIERCE
To make fierce. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENFILADE
A firing in the direction of the length of a trench, or a lineof parapet or troops, etc.; a raking fire.
ENFILED
Having some object, as the head of a man or beast, impaled uponit; as, a sword which is said to be "enfiled of" the thing which itpierces.
ENFIRE
To set on fire. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENFLESH
To clothe with flesh. [Obs.]Vices which are . . . enfleshed in him. Florio.
ENFLEURAGE
A process of extracting perfumes by exposing absorbents, asfixed oils or fats, to the exhalations of the flowers. It is used forplants whose volatile oils are too delicate to be separated bydistillation.
ENFLOWER
To cover or deck with flowers. [Poetic]These odorous and enflowered fields. B. Jonson.
ENFOLD
To infold. See Infold.
ENFOLDMENT
The act of infolding. See Infoldment.
ENFORCE
Force; strength; power. [Obs.]A petty enterprise of small enforce. Milton.
ENFORCEABLE
Capable of being enforced.
ENFORCED
Compelled; forced; not voluntary. "Enforced wrong." "Enforcedsmiles." Shak.-- En*for"ced*ly, adv. Shak.
ENFORCER
One who enforces.
ENFORCIBLE
That may be enforced.
ENFORCIVE
Serving to enforce or constrain; compulsive. Marsion.-- En*for"cive*ly, adv.
ENFOREST
To turn into a forest.
ENFORM
To form; to fashion. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENFOULDRED
Mixed with, or emitting, lightning. [Obs.] "With foulenfouldred smoke." Spenser.
ENFRAME
To inclose, as in a frame.
ENFRANCHISER
One who enfranchises.
ENFREE
To set free. [Obs.] "The enfreed Antenor." Shak.
ENFREEDOM
To set free. [Obs.] Shak.
ENFREEZE
To freeze; to congeal. [Obs.]Thou hast enfrozened her disdainful breast. Spenser.
ENFROWARD
To make froward, perverse, or ungovernable. [Obs.] Sir E.Sandys.
ENGAGE
To come into gear with; as, the teeth of one cogwheel engagethose of another, or one part of a clutch engages the other part.
ENGAGEDLY
With attachment; with interest; earnestly.
ENGAGEDNESS
The state of being deeply interested; earnestness; zeal.
ENGAGEMENT
An action; a fight; a battle.In hot engagement with the Moors. Dryden.
ENGAGER
One who enters into an engagement or agreement; a surety.Several sufficient citizens were engagers. Wood.
ENGAGING
Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive; as,engaging manners or address.-- En*ga"ging*ly, adv.-- En*ga"ging*ness, n. Engaging and disengaging gear or machinery,that in which, or by means of which, one part is alternately broughtinto gear or out of gear with another part, as occasion may require.
ENGALLANT
To make a gallant of. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
ENGAOL
To put in jail; to imprison. [Obs.] Shak.
ENGARBOIL
To throw into disorder; to disturb. [Obs.] "To engarboil thechurch." Bp. Montagu.
ENGARLAND
To encircle with a garland, or with garlands. Sir P. Sidney.
ENGARRISON
To garrison; to put in garrison, or to protect by a garrison.Bp. Hall.
ENGASTRIMUTH
An ventriloquist. [Obs.]
ENGENDER
One who, or that which, engenders.
ENGENDRURE
The act of generation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENGILD
To gild; to make splendent.Fair Helena, who most engilds the night. Shak.
ENGINE
A compound machine by which any physical power is applied toproduce a given physical effect. Engine driver, one who manages anengine; specifically, the engineer of a locomotive.-- Engine lathe. (Mach.) See under Lathe.-- Engine tool, a machine tool. J. Whitworth.-- Engine turning (Fine Arts), a method of ornamentation by means ofa rose engine.
ENGINE-SIZED
Sized by a machine, and not while in the pulp; -- said ofpaper. Knight.
ENGINE-TYPE GENERATOR
A generator having its revolving part carried on the shaft ofthe driving engine.
ENGINEERING
Originally, the art of managing engines; in its modern andextended sense, the art and science by which the mechanicalproperties of matter are made useful to man in structures andmachines; the occupation and work of an engineer.
ENGINEMAN
A man who manages, or waits on, an engine.
ENGINER
A contriver; an inventor; a contriver of engines. [Obs.] Shak.
ENGIRD
To gird; to encompass. Shak.
ENGIRDLE
To surround as with a girdle; to girdle.
ENGIRT
To engird. [R.] Collins.
ENGISCOPE
A kind of reflecting microscope. [Obs.]
ENGLAIMED
Clammy. [Obs.]
ENGLE
A favorite; a paramour; an ingle. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
ENGLISH
Of or pertaining to England, or to its inhabitants, or to thepresent so-called Anglo-Saxon race. English bond (Arch.)
ENGLISHABLE
Capable of being translated into, or expressed in, English.
ENGLISHMAN
A native or a naturalized inhabitant of England.
ENGLISHWOMAN
Fem. of Englishman. Shak.
ENGLOOM
To make gloomy. [R.]
ENGLUE
To join or close fast together, as with glue; as, a coffer wellenglued. Gower.
ENGORGE
To feed with eagerness or voracity; to stuff one's self withfood. Beaumont.
ENGORGED
Filled to excess with blood or other liquid; congested.
ENGORGEMENT
An overfullness or obstruction of the vessels in some part ofthe system; congestion. Hoblyn.
ENGOULED
Partly swallowed; disappearing in the jaws of anything; as, aninfant engouled by a serpent; said also of an ordinary, when its twoends to issue from the mouths of lions, or the like; as, a bendengouled.
ENGOULEE
Same as Engouled.
ENGRAFF
To graft; to fix deeply. [Obs.]
ENGRAFFMENT
See Ingraftment. [Obs.]
ENGRAFT
See Ingraft. Shak.
ENGRAIL
To indent with small curves. See Engrailed.
ENGRAILED
Indented with small concave curves, as the edge of a bordure,bend, or the like.
ENGRAILMENT
Indentation in curved lines, as of a line of division or theedge of an ordinary.
ENGRAPPLE
To grapple. [Obs.]
ENGRASP
To grasp; to grip. [R.] Spenser.
ENGRAVE
To deposit in the grave; to bury. [Obs.] "Their corses toengrave." Spenser.
ENGRAVED
Having the surface covered with irregular, impressed lines.
ENGRAVER
One who engraves; a person whose business it is to produceengraved work, especially on metal or wood.
ENGRAVERY
The trade or work of an engraver. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
ENGREGGE
To aggravate; to make worse; to lie heavy on. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENGRIEVE
To grieve. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENGUARD
To surround as with a guard. [Obs.] Shak.
ENGULF
To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf.It quite engulfs all human thought. Young.
ENGULFMENT
A swallowing up as if in a gulf. [R.]
ENGYN
Variant of Engine. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENHALO
To surround with a halo.
ENHANCE
To be raised up; to grow larger; as, a debt enhances rapidly bycompound interest.
ENHANCEMENT
The act of increasing, or state of being increased;augmentation; aggravation; as, the enhancement of value, price,enjoyments, crime.
ENHANCER
One who enhances; one who, or that which, raises the amount,price, etc.
ENHARBOR
To find harbor or safety in; to dwell in or inhabit. W. Browne.
ENHARDEN
To harden; to embolden. [Obs.] Howell.
ENHARMONICALLY
In the enharmonic style or system; in just intonation.
ENHEARTEN
To give heart to; to fill with courage; to embolden.The enemy exults and is enheartened. I. Taylor.
ENHEDGE
To surround as with a hedge. [R.] Vicars.
ENHORT
To encourage. [Obs.] "To enhort the people." Chaucer.
ENHUNGER
To make hungry.Those animal passions which vice had . . . enhungered to feed oninnocence and life. J. Martineau.
ENHYDROS
A variety of chalcedony containing water.
ENHYDROUS
Having water within; containing fluid drops; -- said of certaincrystals.
ENIGMA
Relating to or resembling an enigma; not easily explained oraccounted for; darkly expressed; obscure; puzzling; as, anenigmatical answer.
ENIGMATICALLY
Darkly; obscurely.
ENIGMATIST
One who makes, or talks in, enigmas. Addison.
ENIGMATIZE
To make, or talk in, enigmas; to deal in riddles.
ENISLED
Placed alone or apart, as if on an island; severed, as anisland. [R.] "In the sea of life enisled." M. Arnold.
ENJAIL
To put into jail; to imprison. [R.] Donne.
ENJOIN
To prohibit or restrain by a judicial order or decree; to putan injunction on.This is a suit to enjoin the defendants from disturbing theplaintiffs. Kent.
ENJOINER
One who enjoins.
ENJOINMENT
Direction; command; authoritative admonition. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
ENJOY
To take satisfaction; to live in happiness. [R.] Milton.
ENJOYABLE
Capable of being enjoyed or of giving joy; yielding enjoyment.Milton.
ENJOYER
One who enjoys.
ENKENNEL
To put into a kennel.
ENKERCHIEFED
Bound with a kerchief; draped; hooded; covered. Milton.That soft, enkerchiefed hair. M. Arnold.
ENLACE
To bind or encircle with lace, or as with lace; to lace; toencircle; to enfold; hence, to entangle.Ropes of pearl her neck and breast enlace. P. Fletcher.
ENLACEMENT
The act of enlacing, or state of being enlaced; a surroundingas with a lace.
ENLARD
To cover or dress with lard or grease; to fatten. Shak.
ENLARGE
To get more astern or parallel with the vessel's course; todraw aft; -- said of the wind.
ENLARGED
Made large or larger; extended; swollen.-- En*lar"ged*ly, adv.-- En*lar"ged*ness, n.
ENLARGER
One that enlarges.
ENLAY
See Inlay.
ENLENGTHEN
To lengthen. [Obs.]
ENLEVEN
Eleven. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENLIGHT
To illumine; to enlighten. [R.]Which from the first has shone on ages past, Enlights the present,and shall warm the last. Pope.
ENLIGHTENER
One who enlightens or illuminates; one who, or that which,communicates light to the eye, or clear views to the mind.
ENLIGHTENMENT
Act of enlightening, or the state of being enlightened orinstructed.
ENLIMN
To adorn by illuminating or ornamenting with colored anddecorated letters and figures, as a book or manuscript. [R.]Palsgrave.
ENLINK
To chain together; to connect, as by links. Shak.
ENLIVE
To enliven. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ENLIVENER
One who, or that which, enlivens, animates, or invigorates.
ENLOCK
To lock; to inclose.
ENLUMINE
To illumine. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENLUTE
To coat with clay; to lute. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENMANCHE
Resembling, or covered with, a sleeve; -- said of the chiefwhen lines are drawn from the middle point of the upper edge upperedge to the sides.
ENMARBLE
To make hard as marble; to harden. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENMESH
To catch or entangle in, or as in, meshes. Shak.My doubts enmesh me if I try. Lowell.
ENMEW
See Emmew.
ENMIST
To infold, as in a mist.
ENMOSSED
Covered with moss; mossed. Keats.
ENMOVE
See Emmove. [Obs.]
ENMUFFLE
To muffle up.
ENMURE
To immure. [Obs.]
ENNATION
The ninth segment in insects.
ENNEAD
The number nine or a group of nine. The Enneads, the titlegiven to the works of the philosopher Plotinus, published by hispupil Porphyry; -- so called because each of the six books into whichit is divided contains nine chapters.
ENNEAGON
A polygon or plane figure with nine sides and nine angles; anonagon.
ENNEAGONAL
Belonging to an enneagon; having nine angles.
ENNEAGYNOUS
Having or producing nine pistils or styles; -- said of a floweror plant.
ENNEAHEDRAL
Having nine sides.
ENNEANDRIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants having nine stamens.
ENNEAPETALOUS
Having nine petals, or flower leaves.
ENNEASPERMOUS
Having nine seeds; -- said of fruits.
ENNEW
To make new. [Obs.] Skelton.
ENNICHE
To place in a niche. Sterne.
ENNOBLER
One who ennobles.
ENNUI
A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor ofspirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium. T. Gray.
ENNUYE
Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted.
ENNUYEE
A woman affected with ennui. Mrs. Jameson.
ENODAL
Without a node. Gray.
ENODATION
The act or operation of clearing of knots, or of untying;hence, also, the solution of a difficulty. [R.] Bailey.
ENODE
To clear of knots; to make clear. [Obs.] Cockeram.
ENOINT
Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENOMOTARCH
The commander of an enomoty. Mitford.
ENOMOTY
A band of sworn soldiers; a division of the Spartan armyranging from twenty-five to thirty-six men, bound together by oath.
ENOPLA
One of the orders of Nemertina, characterized by the presenceof a peculiar armature of spines or plates in the proboscis.
ENOPTOMANCY
Divination by the use of a mirror.
ENORM
Enormous. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENORMOUSLY
In an enormous degree.
ENORMOUSNESS
The state of being enormous.
ENORTHOTROPE
An optical toy; a card on which confused or imperfect figuresare drawn, but which form to the eye regular figures when the card israpidly revolved. See Thaumatrope.
ENOUGH
Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want;sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun towhich it belongs.How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and tospare! Luke xv. 17.
ENOUNCEMENT
Act of enouncing; that which is enounced.
ENOW
A form of Enough. [Archaic] Shak.
ENPATRON
To act the part of a patron towards; to patronize. [Obs.] Shak.
ENPIERCE
To pierce. [Obs.] Shak.
ENQUERE
To inquire. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENQUICKEN
To quicken; to make alive. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
ENQUIRE
See Inquire.
ENQUIRER
See Inquirer.
ENQUIRY
See Inquiry.
ENRACE
To enroot; to implant. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENRAGE
To fill with rage; to provoke to frenzy or madness; to makefurious.
ENRAGEMENT
Act of enraging or state of being enraged; excitement. [Obs.]
ENRANK
To place in ranks or in order. [R.] Shak.
ENRAPT
Thrown into ecstasy; transported; enraptured. Shak.
ENRAPTURE
To transport with pleasure; to delight beyond measure; toenravish. Shenstone.
ENRAVISH
To transport with delight; to enrapture; to fascinate. Spenser.
ENRAVISHINGLY
So as to throw into ecstasy.
ENRAVISHMENT
The state of being enravished or enraptured; ecstasy; rapture.Glanvill.
ENREGISTER
To register; to enroll or record; to inregister.To read enregistered in every nook His goodness, which His beautydoth declare. Spenser.
ENRHEUM
To contract a rheum. [Obs.] Harvey.
ENRICHER
One who enriches.
ENRICHMENT
The act of making rich, or that which enriches; increase ofvalue by improvements, embellishment, etc.; decoration;embellishment.
ENRIDGE
To form into ridges. Shak.
ENRING
To encircle. [R.]The Muses and the Graces, grouped in threes, Enringed a billowingfountain in the midst. Tennyson.
ENRIPEN
To ripen. [Obs.] Donne.
ENRIVE
To rive; to cleave. [Obs.]
ENROBE
To invest or adorn with a robe; to attire.
ENROCKMENT
A mass of large stones thrown into water at random to formbases of piers, breakwaters, etc.
ENROLLER
One who enrolls or registers.
ENROOT
To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep. Shak.
ENROUND
To surround. [Obs.] Shak.
ENS
Entity, being, or existence; an actually existing being; also,God, as the Being of Beings.
ENSAFE
To make safe. [Obs.] Hall.
ENSAMPLE
An example; a pattern or model for imitation. [Obs.] Tyndale.Being ensamples to the flock.
ENSANGUINE
To stain or cover with blood; to make bloody, or of a blood-redcolor; as, an ensanguined hue. "The ensanguined field." Milton.
ENSATE
Having sword-shaped leaves, or appendages; ensiform.
ENSCALE
To cover with scales.
ENSCHEDULE
To insert in a schedule. See Schedule. [R.] Shak.
ENSCONCE
To cover or shelter, as with a sconce or fort; to place or hidesecurely; to conceal.She shall not see me: I will ensconce me behind the arras. Shak.
ENSEAL
To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, toratify. [Obs.]This deed I do enseal. Piers Plowman.
ENSEAM
To sew up; to inclose by a seam; hence, to include; to contain.Camden.
ENSEAR
To sear; to dry up. [Obs.]Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb. Shak.
ENSEARCH
To make search; to try to find something. [Obs.] -- v. t.
ENSEEL
To close eyes of; to seel; -- said in reference to a hawk.[Obs.]
ENSEINT
With child; pregnant. See Enceinte. [Obs.]
ENSEMBLE
The whole; all the parts taken together.
ENSHELTER
To shelter. [Obs.]
ENSHIELD
To defend, as with a shield; to shield. [Archaic] Shak.
ENSHRINE
To inclose in a shrine or chest; hence, to preserve or cherishas something sacred; as, to enshrine something in memory.We will enshrine it as holy relic. Massinger.
ENSHROUD
To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to shroud. Churchill.
ENSIFEROUS
Bearing a sword.
ENSIFORM
Having the form of a sword blade; sword-shaped; as, an ensiformleaf. Ensiform cartilage, and Ensiform process. (Anat.) SeeXiphisternum.
ENSIGNCY
The rank or office of an ensign.
ENSIGNSHIP
The state or rank of an ensign.
ENSILAGE
To preserve in a silo; as, to ensilage cornstalks.
ENSILE
To store (green fodder) in a silo; to prepare as silage. --En"si*list (#), n.
ENSKY
To place in the sky or in heaven. [R.] "A thing enskied andsainted." Shak.
ENSLAVE
To reduce to slavery; to make a slave of; to subject to adominant influence.The conquer'd, also, and enslaved by war, Shall, with their freedomlost, all virtue lose. Milton.Pleasure admitted in undue degree Enslaves the will. Cowper.
ENSLAVEDNESS
State of being enslaved.
ENSLAVEMENT
The act of reducing to slavery; state of being enslaved;bondage; servitude.A fresh enslavement to their enemies. South.
ENSLAVER
One who enslaves. Swift.
ENSNARE
To catch in a snare. See Insnare.
ENSNARL
To entangle. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENSOBER
To make sober. [Obs.]Sad accidents to ensober his spirits. Jer. Taylor.
ENSOUL
To indue or imbue (a body) with soul. [R.] Emerson.
ENSTAMP
To stamp; to mark asIt is the motive . . . which enstamps the character. Gogan.
ENSTATE
See Instate.
ENSTATITE
A mineral of the pyroxene group, orthorhombic incrystallization; often fibrous and massive; color grayish white orgreenish. It is a silicate of magnesia with some iron. Bronzite is aferriferous variety.
ENSTATITIC
Relating to enstatite.
ENSTORE
To restore. [Obs.] Wyclif.
ENSTYLE
To style; to name. [Obs.]
ENSUABLE
Ensuing; following.
ENSUE
To follow; to pursue; to follow and overtake. [Obs.] "Seekpeace, and ensue it." 1 Pet. iii. 11.To ensue his example in doing the like mischief. Golding.
ENSURER
See Insurer.
ENSWATHE
To swathe; to envelop, as in swaddling clothes. Shak.
ENSWATHEMENT
The act of enswathing, or the state of being enswathed.
ENSWEEP
To sweep over or across; to pass over rapidly. [R.] Thomson.
ENT-
A prefix signifying within. See Ento-.
ENTABLATURE
The superstructure which lies horizontally upon the columns.See Illust. of Column, Cornice.
ENTABLEMENT
See Entablature. [R.] Evelyn.
ENTACKLE
To supply with tackle. [Obs.] Skelton.
ENTAD
Toward the inside or central part; away from the surface; --opposed to ectad. B. G. Wilder.
ENTAL
Pertaining to, or situated near, central or deep parts; inner;-- opposed to ectal. B. G. Wilder.
ENTAME
To tame. [Obs.] Shak.
ENTANGLEMENT
State of being entangled; intricate and confused involution;that which entangles; intricacy; perplexity.
ENTANGLER
One that entangles.
ENTASIA
Tonic spasm; -- applied generically to denote any diseasecharacterized by tonic spasms, as tetanus, trismus, etc.
ENTASIS
A slight convex swelling of the shaft of a column.
ENTASSMENT
A heap; accumulation. [R.]
ENTASTIC
Relating to any disease characterized by tonic spasms.
ENTELECHY
An actuality; a conception completely actualized, indistinction from mere potential existence.
ENTELLUS
An East Indian long-tailed bearded monkey (Semnopithecusentellus) regarded as sacred by the natives. It is remarkable for thecaplike arrangement of the hair on the head. Called also hoonoomaunand hungoor.
ENTEND
To attend to; to apply one's self to. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENTENTIVE
Attentive; zealous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENTER-
A prefix signifying between, among, part.
ENTERADENOGRAPHY
A treatise upon, or description of, the intestinal glands.
ENTERADENOLOGY
The science which treats of the glands of the alimentary canal.
ENTERALGIA
Pain in the intestines; colic.
ENTERDEAL
Mutual dealings; intercourse. [Obs.]The enterdeal of princes strange. Spenser.
ENTERER
One who makes an entrance or beginning. A. Seward.
ENTERIC
Of or pertaining to the enteron, or alimentary canal;intestinal. Enteric fever (Med.), typhoid fever.
ENTERITIS
An inflammation of the intestines. Hoblyn.
ENTERLACE
See Interlace.
ENTERMETE
To interfere; to intermeddle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENTERMEWER
A hawk gradually changing the color of its feathers, commonlyin the second year.
ENTERMISE
Mediation. [Obs.]
ENTEROCELE
A hernial tumor whose contents are intestine.
ENTEROCOELE
A perivisceral cavity which arises as an outgrowth oroutgrowths from the digestive tract; distinguished from aschizocoele, which arises by a splitting of the mesoblast of theembryo.
ENTEROGRAPHY
A treatise upon, or description of, the intestines; enterology.
ENTEROLITH
An intestinal concretion.
ENTEROLOGY
The science which treats of the viscera of the body.
ENTERON
The whole alimentary, or enteric, canal.
ENTEROPATHY
Disease of the intestines.
ENTEROPNEUSTA
A group of wormlike invertebrates having, along the sides ofthe body, branchial openings for the branchial sacs, which are formedby diverticula of the alimentary canal. Balanoglossus is the onlyknown genus. See Illustration in Appendix.
ENTERORRHAPHY
The operation of sewing up a rent in the intestinal canal.
ENTEROTOME
A kind of scissors used for opening the intestinal canal, as inpost-mortem examinations.
ENTEROTOMY
Incision of the intestines, especially in reducing certaincases of hernia.
ENTERPARLANCE
Mutual talk or conversation; conference. [Obs.] Sir J. Hayward.
ENTERPLEAD
Same as Interplead.
ENTERPRISE
To undertake an enterprise, or something hazardous ordifficult. [R.] Pope.
ENTERPRISER
One who undertakes enterprises. Sir J. Hayward.
ENTERPRISING
Having a disposition for enterprise; characterized byenterprise; resolute, active or prompt to attempt; as, anenterprising man or firm.-- En"ter*pri`sing*ly, adv.
ENTERTAIN
To receive, or provide entertainment for, guests; as, heentertains generously.
ENTERTAINER
One who entertains.
ENTERTAINING
Affording entertainment; pleasing; amusing; diverting.-- En`ter*tain"ing*ly, adv.-- En`ter*tain"ing*ness, n.
ENTERTAKE
To entertain. [Obs.]
ENTERTISSUED
Same as Intertissued.
ENTHEASM
Inspiration; enthusiasm. [R.] "Religious entheasm." Byron.
ENTHEASTIC
Of godlike energy; inspired.-- En`the*as"tic*al*ly, adv.
ENTHEAT
Divinely inspired. [Obs.] Drummond.
ENTHETIC
Caused by a morbifie virus implanted in the system; as, anenthetic disease like syphilis.
ENTHRALL
To hold in thrall; to enslave. See Inthrall.The bars survive the captive they enthrall. Byron.
ENTHRALLMENT
The act of enthralling, or state of being enthralled. SeeInthrallment.
ENTHRILL
To pierce; to thrill. [Obs.] Sackville.
ENTHRONE
To induct, as a bishop, into the powers and privileges of avacant see.
ENTHRONEMENT
The act of enthroning, or state of being enthroned. [Recent]
ENTHRONIZATION
The act of enthroning; hence, the admission of a bishop to hisstall or throne in his cathedral.
ENTHRONIZE
To place on a throne; hence, to induct into office, as abishop.There openly enthronized as the very elected king. Knolles.
ENTHUSE
To make or become enthusiastic. [Slang]
ENTHUSIAST
One moved or actuated by enthusiasm; as: (a) One who imagineshimself divinely inspired, or possessed of some special revelation; areligious madman; a fanatic. (b) One whose mind is wholly possessedand heated by what engages it; one who is influenced by a peculiar;fervor of mind; an ardent and imaginative person.Enthusiasts soon understand each other. W. Irving.
ENTHUSIASTIC
An enthusiast; a zealot. [Obs.]
ENTHYMEME
An argument consisting of only two propositions, an antecedentand consequent deduced from it; a syllogism with one premise omitted;as, We are dependent; therefore we should be humble. Here the majorproposition is suppressed. The complete syllogism would be, Dependentcreatures should be humble; we are dependent creatures; therefore weshould be humble.
ENTICE
To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract;as, the bait enticed the fishes. Often in a bad sense: To leadastray; to induce to evil; to tempt; as, the sirens enticed them tolisten.Roses blushing as they blow, And enticing men to pull. Beau. & Fl.My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Prov. i. 10.Go, and thine erring brother gain, Entice him home to be forgiven.Keble.
ENTICEABLE
Capable of being enticed.
ENTICER
One who entices; one who incites or allures to evil. Burton.
ENTICING
That entices; alluring.
ENTICINGLY
In an enticing manner; charmingly. "She . . . sings mostenticingly." Addison.
ENTIERTY
See Entirety. [Obs.]
ENTIRE
A name originally given to a kind of beer combining qualitiesof different kinds of beer. [Eng.] "Foker's Entire." Thackeray.
ENTIRE-WHEAT
Designating, made of, or relating to, flour including aconsiderable part of the bran.
ENTITATIVE
Considered as pure entity; abstracted from all circumstances.Ellis.-- En"ti*ta*tive*ly, adv.
ENTITULE
To entitle. B. Jonson.
ENTITY
A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception) or infact; being; essence; existence.Self-subsisting entities, such as our own personality. Shairp.Fortune is no real entity, . . . but a mere relative signification.Bentley.
ENTO-
A combining form signifying within; as, entoblast.
ENTOBLAST
The inner germ layer; endoderm. See Nucleolus.
ENTOBRONCHIUM
One of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.
ENTODERM
See Endoderm, and Illust. of Blastoderm.
ENTOGASTRIC
Pertaining to the interior of the stomach; -- applied to a modeof budding from the interior of the gastric cavity, in certainhydroids.
ENTOGENOUS
See Endogenous.
ENTOGLOSSAL
Within the tongue; -- applied to the glossohyal bone.
ENTOIL
To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare. [R.]Entoiled in woofed phantasies. Keats.
ENTOMB
To deposit in a tomb, as a dead body; to bury; to inter; toinhume. Hooker.
ENTOMBMENT
The act of entombing or burying, or state of being entombed;burial. Barrow.
ENTOMERE
The more granular cells, which finally become internal, in manysegmenting ova, as those of mammals.
ENTOMOID
Resembling an insect.-- n.
ENTOMOLIN
See Chitin.
ENTOMOLITE
A fossil insect.
ENTOMOLOGIST
One versed in entomology.
ENTOMOLOGIZE
To collect specimens in the study of entomology. C. Kingsley.
ENTOMOPHAGAN
Relating to the Entomophaga.-- n.
ENTOMOPHAGOUS
Feeding on insects; insectivorous.
ENTOMOPHILOUS
Fertilized by the agency of insects; -- said of plants in whichthe pollen is carried to the stigma by insects.
ENTOMOSTRACA
One of the subclasses of Crustacea, including a large number ofspecies, many of them minute. The group embraces several orders; asthe Phyllopoda, Ostracoda, Copepoda, and Pectostraca. See Copepoda,Phyllopoda, and Cladocera.
ENTOMOSTRACAN
Relating to the Entomostraca.-- n.
ENTOMOSTRACOUS
Belonging to the Entomostracans.
ENTOMOTOMIST
One who practices entomotomy.
ENTOMOTOMY
The science of the dissection of insects.
ENTONIC
Having great tension, or exaggerated action. Dunglison.
ENTOPERIPHERAL
Being, or having its origin, within the external surface of thebody; -- especially applied to feelings, such as hunger, produced byinternal disturbances. Opposed to epiperipheral.
ENTOPHYTE
A vegetable parasite subsisting in the interior of the body.
ENTOPHYTIC
Of or pertaining to entophytes; as, an entophytic disease.
ENTOPLASTIC
Pertaining to, or composed of, entoplasm; as, the entoplasticproducts of some Protozoa, or the entoplastic modification of thecell protoplasm, by which a nucleus is produced.
ENTOPLASTRON
The median plate of the plastron of turtles; -- called alsoentosternum.
ENTOPROCTA
A group of Bryozoa in which the anus is within the circle oftentacles. See Pedicellina.
ENTOPTIC
Relating to objects situated within the eye; esp., relating tothe perception of objects in one's own eye.
ENTORGANISM
An internal parasitic organism.
ENTORTILATION
A turning into a circle; round figures. [Obs.] Donne.
ENTOSTERNUM
See Entoplastron.-- En`to*ster"nal, a.
ENTOSTHOBLAST
The granule within the nucleolus or entoblast of a nucleatedcell. Agassiz.
ENTOTHORAX
See Endothorax.
ENTOTIC
Pertaining to the interior of the ear.
ENTOURAGE
Surroundings; specif., collectively, one's attendants orassociates.
ENTOZOA
Pertaining to, or consisting of, the Entozoa.
ENTRAIL
To interweave; to intertwine. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENTRAIN
To draw along as a current does; as, water entrained by steam.
ENTRAMMEL
To trammel; to entangle. Bp. Hacket.
ENTRANCEMENT
The act of entrancing, or the state of trance or ecstasy.Otway.
ENTRAP
To catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap,by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch orinvolve in contradictions; as, to be entrapped by the devices of evilmen.A golden mesh, to entrap the hearts of men. Shak.
ENTREAT
Entreaty. [Obs.] Ford.
ENTREATABLE
That may be entreated.
ENTREATANCE
Entreaty. [Obs.] Fairfax.
ENTREATER
One who entreats; one who asks earnestly; a beseecher.
ENTREATFUL
Full of entreaty. [R.] See Intreatful.
ENTREATINGLY
In an entreating manner.
ENTREATIVE
Used in entreaty; pleading. [R.] "Entreative phrase." A.Brewer.
ENTREATMENT
Entreaty; invitation. [Obs.] Shak.
ENTREE
In French usage, a dish served at the beginning of dinner togive zest to the appetite; in English usage, a side dish, served witha joint, or between the courses, as a cutlet, scalloped oysters, etc.
ENTREMETS
A side dish; a dainty or relishing dish usually eaten after thejoints or principal dish; also, a sweetmeat, served with a dinner.
ENTRENCH
See Intrench.
ENTREPOT
A warehouse; a magazine for depositing goods, stores, etc.; amart or place where merchandise is deposited; as, an entrepรดt forshipping goods in transit.
ENTREPRENEUR
One who creates a product on his own account; whoeverundertakes on his own account an industrial enterprise in whichworkmen are employed. F. A. Walker.
ENTRESOL
A low story between two higher ones, usually between the groundfloor and the first story; mezzanine. Parker.
ENTRICK
To trick, to perplex. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
ENTROCHAL
Pertaining to, or consisting of, entrochites, or the joints ofencrinites; -- used of a kind of stone or marble.
ENTROCHITE
A fossil joint of a crinoid stem.
ENTROPION
Same as Entropium.
ENTROPIUM
The inversion or turning in of the border of the eyelids.
ENTROPY
A certain property of a body, expressed as a measurablequantity, such that when there is no communication of heat thequantity remains constant, but when heat enters or leaves the bodythe quantity increases or diminishes. If a small amount, h, of heatenters the body when its temperature is t in the thermodynamic scalethe entropy of the body is increased by h . The entropy is regardedas measured from some standard temperature and pressure. Sometimescalled the thermodynamic function.The entropy of the universe tends towards a maximum. Clausius.
ENTRUST
See Intrust.
ENTRY
The exhibition or depositing of a ship's papers at thecustomhouse, to procure license to land goods; or the giving anaccount of a ship's cargo to the officer of the customs, andobtaining his permission to land the goods. See Enter, v. t., 8, andEntrance, n.,
ENTRYNG
Am entrance. [Obs.]So great an entryng and so large. Chaucer.
ENTUNE
To tune; to intone. Chaucer.
ENTWINE
To twine, twist, or wreathe together or round. [Written alsointwine.]Entwined in duskier wreaths her braided locks. Shelley.Thy glorious household stuff did me entwine. Herbert.
ENTWINEMENT
A twining or twisting together or round; union. Bp. Hacket.
ENTWIST
To twist or wreathe round; to intwine. Shak.
ENUBILATE
To clear from mist, clouds, or obscurity. [R.] Bailey.
ENUBILOUS
Free from fog, mist, or clouds; clear. [R.]
ENUCLEATE
To remove without cutting (as a tumor).
ENUCLEATION
The act of enucleating; elucidation; exposition.Neither sir, nor water, nor food, seem directly to contributeanything to the enucleation of this disease. Tooke.
ENUMERATE
To count; to tell by numbers; to count over, or tell off oneafter another; to number; to reckon up; to mention one by one; toname over; to make a special and separate account of; to recount; as,to enumerate the stars in a constellation.Enumerating the services he had done. Ludlow.
ENUMERATION
A recapitulation, in the peroration, of the heads of anargument.
ENUMERATIVE
Counting, or reckoning up, one by one.Enumerative of the variety of evils. Jer. Taylor.
ENUMERATOR
One who enumerates.
ENUNCIABLE
Capable of being enunciated or expressed.
ENUNCIATE
To utter words or syllables articulately.
ENUNCIATIVE
Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation; declarative.Ayliffe.-- E*nun"ci*a*tive*ly, adv.
ENUNCIATOR
One who enunciates or proclaims.
ENUNCIATORY
Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation or utterance.
ENURE
See Inure.
ENURESIS
An involuntary discharge of urine; incontinence of urine.
ENVASSAL
To make a vassal of. [Obs.]
ENVAULT
To inclose in a vault; to entomb. [R.] Swift.
ENVEIGLE
To entice. See Inveigle.
ENVELOP
To put a covering about; to wrap up or in; to inclose within acase, wrapper, integument or the like; to surround entirely; as, toenvelop goods or a letter; the fog envelops a ship.Nocturnal shades this world envelop. J. Philips.
ENVENIME
To envenom. [Obs.]
ENVERMEIL
To color with, or as with, vermilion; to dye red. [Obs.]Milton.
ENVIABLE
Fitted to excite envy; capable of awakening an ardent desire toposses or to resemble.One of most enviable of human beings. Macaulay.-- En"vi*a*ble*ness, n.-- En"vi*a*bly, adv.
ENVIE
To vie; to emulate; to strive. [Obs.] Spenser.
ENVIER
One who envies; one who desires inordinately what anotherpossesses.
ENVIGOR
To invigorate. [Obs.]
ENVIRON
To surround; to encompass; to encircle; to hem in; to be roundabout; to involve or envelop.Dwelling in a pleasant glade, With mountains round about environed.Spenser.Environed he was with many foes. Shak.Environ me with darkness whilst I write. Donne.
ENVIRONS
The parts or places which surround another place, or lie in itsneighborhood; suburbs; as, the environs of a city or town.Chesterfield.
ENVISAGE
To look in the face of; to apprehend; to regard. [R.] Keats.From the very dawn of existence the infant must envisage self, andbody acting on self. McCosh.
ENVISAGEMENT
The act of envisaging.
ENVOLUME
To form into, or incorporate with, a volume. [R.]
ENVOLUP
To wrap up; to envelop. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENVOY
An explanatory or commendatory postscript to a poem, essay, orbook; -- also in the French from, l'envoi.The envoy of a ballad is the "sending" of it forth. Skeat.
ENVOYSHIP
The office or position of an envoy.
ENVYNED
Stored or furnished with wine. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ENWALL
See Inwall. Sir P. Sidney.
ENWALLOW
To plunge into, or roll in, flith; to wallow.So now all three one senseless lump remain, Enwallowed in his ownblack bloody gore. Spenser.
ENWHEEL
To encircle. Shak.
ENWIDEN
To widen. [Obs.]
ENWIND
To wind about; to encircle.In the circle of his arms Enwound us both. Tennyson.
ENWOMAN
To endow with the qualities of a woman. [R.] Daniel.
ENWRAP
To envelop. See Inwrap.
ENWRAPMENT
Act of enwrapping; a wrapping or an envelope. Shuckford.
ENWREATHE
See Inwreathe. Shelton.
ENZYME
An unorganized or unformed ferment, in distinction from anorganized or living ferment; a soluble, or chemical, ferment.Ptyalin, pepsin, diastase, and rennet are good examples of enzymes.
EOCENE
Pertaining to the first in time of the three subdivisions intowhich the Tertiary formation is divided by geologists, and alludingto the approximation in its life to that of the present era; as,Eocene deposits.-- n.
EOLIAN
Formed, or deposited, by the action of wind, as dunes. Eolianattachment, Eolian harp. See รolian.
EOLIC
See รolic.
EOLIPILE
Same as รolipile.
EOLIS
A genus of nudibranch mollusks having clusters of branchialpapillรฆ along the back. See Ceratobranchia. [Written also รolis.]
EOPHYTE
A fossil plant which is found in the lowest beds of theSilurian age.
EOPHYTIC
Of or pertaining to eophytes.
EOS
Aurora, the goddess of morn.
EOSAURUS
An extinct marine reptile from the coal measures of NovaScotia; -- so named because supposed to be of the earliest knownreptiles.
EOSIN
A yellow or brownish red dyestuff obtained by the action ofbromine on fluoresceรฏn, and named from the fine rose-red which itimparts to silk. It is also used for making a fine red ink. Itssolution is fluorescent.
EOSPHORITE
A hydrous phosphate of alumina and manganese. It is generallyof a rose-pink color, -- whence the name.
EOZOIC
Of or pertaining to rocks or strata older than the Paleozoic,in many of which the eozoรถn has been found.
EP-
See Epi-.
EPACRIS
A genus of shrubs, natives of Australia, New Zealand, etc.,having pretty white, red, or purple blossoms, and much resemblingheaths.
EPACT
The moon's age at the beginning of the calendar year, or thenumber of days by which the last new moon has preceded the beginningof the year. Annual epact, the excess of the solar year over thelunar year, -- being eleven days.-- Menstrual epact, or Monthly epact, the excess of a calendar monthover a lunar.
EPAGOGE
The adducing of particular examples so as to lead to auniversal conclusion; the argument by induction.
EPAGOGIC
Inductive. Latham.
EPALATE
Without palpi.
EPANADIPLOSIS
A figure by which the same word is used both at the beginningand at the end of a sentence; as, "Rejoice in the Lord always: andagain I say, Rejoice." Phil. iv. 4.
EPANALEPSIS
A figure by which the same word or clause is repeated afterintervening matter. Gibbs.
EPANAPHORA
Same as Anaphora. Gibbs.
EPANASTROPHE
Same as Anadiplosis. Gibbs.
EPANODOS
A figure of speech in which the parts of a sentence or clauseare repeated in inverse order, as in the following: --O more exceeding love, or law more just Just law, indeed, but moreexceeding love! Milton.
EPANODY
The abnormal change of an irregular flower to a regular form; -- considered by evolutionists to be a reversion to an ancestralcondition.
EPANORTHOSIS
A figure by which a speaker recalls a word or words, in orderto substitute something else stronger or more significant; as, Mostbrave! Brave, did I say most heroic act!
EPANTHOUS
Growing upon flowers; -- said of certain species of fungi.
EPARCH
In ancient Greece, the governor or perfect of a province; inmodern Greece, the ruler of an eparchy.
EPARCHY
A province, prefecture, or territory, under the jurisdiction ofan eparch or governor; esp., in modern Greece, one of the largersubdivisions of a monarchy or province of the kingdom; in Russia, adiocese or archdiocese.
EPARTERIAL
Situated upon or above an artery; -- applied esp. to thebranches of the bronchi given off above the point where the pulmonaryartery crosses the bronchus.
EPAULE
The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face andflank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder.
EPAULEMENT
A side work, made of gabions, fascines, or bags, filled withearth, or of earth heaped up, to afford cover from the flanking fireof an enemy.
EPAXIAL
Above, or on the dorsal side of, the axis of the skeleton;episkeletal.
EPEIRA
A genus of spiders, including the common garden spider (E.diadema). They spin geometrical webs. See Garden spider.
EPEN
See Epencephalon.
EPENCEPHALON
The segment of the brain next behind the midbrain, includingthe cerebellum and pons; the hindbrain. Sometimes abbreviated toepen.
EPENDYMA
The epithelial lining of the ventricles of the brain and thecanal of the spinal cord; endyma; ependymis.
EPENDYMIS
See Ependyma.
EPENETIC
Bestowing praise; eulogistic; laudatory. [Obs.] E. Phillips.
EPENTHESIS
The insertion of a letter or a sound in the body of a word; as,the b in "nimble" from AS. nemol.
EPENTHETIC
Inserted in the body of a word; as, an epenthetic letter orsound.
EPERGNE
A centerpiece for table decoration, usually consisting ofseveral dishes or receptacles of different sizes grouped together inan ornamental design.
EPERLAN
The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus).
EPEXEGESIS
A full or additional explanation; exegesis.
EPEXEGETICAL
Relating to epexegesis; explanatory; exegetical.
EPHEMERA
A fever of one day's continuance only.
EPHEMERAL
Anything lasting but a day, or a brief time; an ephemeralplant, insect, etc.
EPHEMERAN
One of the ephemeral flies.
EPHEMERIC
Ephemeral.
EPHEMERIS
A collective name for reviews, magazines, and all kinds ofperiodical literature. Brande & C.
EPHEMERON
One of the ephemeral flies.
EPHEMEROUS
Ephemeral. [R.] Burke.
EPHESIAN
Of or pertaining to Ephesus, an ancient city of Ionia, in AsiaMinor.
EPHIALTES
The nightmare. Brande & C.
EPHIPPIAL
Saddle-shaped; occupying an ephippium. Dana.
EPHIPPIUM
A depression in the sphenoid bone; the pituitary fossa.
EPHOD
A part of the sacerdotal habit among Jews, being a covering forthe back and breast, held together on the shoulders by two clasps orbrooches of onyx stones set in gold, and fastened by a girdle of thesame stuff as the ephod. The ephod for the priests was of plainlinen; that for the high priest was richly embroidered in colors. Thebreastplate of the high priest was worn upon the ephod in front.Exodus xxviii. 6-12.
EPHOR
A magistrate; one of a body of five magistrates chosen by thepeople of ancient Sparta. They exercised control even over the king.
EPHORAL
Pertaining to an ephor.
EPHORALTY
The office of an ephor, or the body of ephors.
EPHRAIM
A hunter's name for the grizzly bear.
EPHYRA
A stage in the development of discophorous medusรฆ, when theyfirst begin to swim about after being detached from the strobila. SeeStrobila.
EPI-
A prefix, meaning upon, beside, among, on the outside, above,over. It becomes ep- before a vowel, as in epoch, and eph- before aGreek aspirate, as in ephemeral.
EPIBLAST
The outer layer of the blastoderm; the ectoderm. SeeBlastoderm, Delamination.
EPIBLASTIC
Of or relating to, or consisting of, the epiblast.
EPIBLEMA
The epidermal cells of rootlets, specially adapted to absorbliquids. Goodale.
EPIBOLIC
Growing or covering over; -- said of a kind of invagination.See under Invagination.
EPIBOLY
Epibolic invagination. See under Invagination.
EPIBRANCHIAL
Pertaining to the segment between the ceratobranchial andpharyngobranchial in a branchial arch.-- n.
EPIC
Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kindof narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real orfictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, arenarrated in an elevated style.The epic poem treats of one great, complex action, in a grand styleand with fullness of detail. T. Arnold.
EPICAL
Epic.-- Ep"ic*al*ly, adv.Poems which have an epical character. Brande & C.His [Wordsworth's] longer poems (miscalled epical). Lowell.
EPICARDIAC
Of or relating to the epicardium.
EPICARDIUM
That of the pericardium which forms the outer surface of theheart; the cardiac pericardium.
EPICARICAN
An isopod crustacean, parasitic on shrimps.
EPICARP
The external or outermost layer of a fructified or ripenedovary. See Illust. under Endocarp.
EPICEDE
A funeral song or discourse; an elegy. [R.] Donne.
EPICEDIAL
Elegiac; funereal.
EPICEDIAN
Epicedial.-- n.
EPICEDIUM
An epicede.
EPICENTRAL
Arising from the centrum of a vertebra. Owen.
EPICERASTIC
Lenient; assuaging. [Obs.]
EPICHIREMA
A syllogism in which the proof of the major or minor premise,or both, is introduced with the premises themselves, and theconclusion is derived in the ordinary manner. [Written alsoepicheirema.]
EPICHORDAL
Upon or above the notochord; -- applied esp. to a vertebralcolumn which develops upon the dorsal side of the notochord, asdistinguished from a perichordal column, which develops around it.
EPICHORIAL
In or of the country. [R.]Epichorial superstitions from every district of Europe. De Quincey.
EPICLEIDIUM
A projection, formed by a separate ossification, at thescapular end of the clavicle of many birds.
EPICLINAL
Situated on the receptacle or disk of a flower.
EPICOENE
Epicene. [R.] Hadley.
EPICOLIC
Situated upon or over the colon; -- applied to the region ofthe abdomen adjacent to the colon.
EPICONDYLAR
Pertaining to, or resembling, an epicondyle.
EPICONDYLE
A projection on the inner side of the distal end of thenumerus; the internal condyle.
EPICORACOID
A ventral cartilaginous or bony element of the coracoid in theshoulder girdle of some vertebrates.
EPICRANIAL
Pertaining to the epicranium; as epicranial muscles.
EPICRANIUM
The upper and superficial part of the head, including thescalp, muscles, etc.
EPICUREANISM
Attachment to the doctrines of Epicurus; the principles orbelief of Epicurus.
EPICURELY
Luxuriously. Nash.
EPICUREOUS
Epicurean. [Obs.]
EPICYCLE
A circle, whose center moves round in the circumference of agreater circle; or a small circle, whose center, being fixed in thedeferent of a planet, is carried along with the deferent, and yet, byits own peculiar motion, carries the body of the planet fastened toit round its proper center.The schoolmen were like astronomers which did feign eccentries, andepicycles, and such engines of orbs. Bacon.
EPICYCLIC
Pertaining to, resembling, or having the motion of, anepicycle. Epicyclic train (Mach.), a train of mechanism in whichepicyclic motion is involved; esp., a train of spur wheels, bevelwheels, or belt pulleys, in which an arm, carrying one or more of thewheels, sweeps around a center lying in an axis common to the otherwheels.
EPICYCLOID
A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circlewhich rolls on the convex side of a fixed circle.
EPICYCLOIDAL
Pertaining to the epicycloid, or having its properties.Epicycloidal wheel, a device for producing straight-line motion fromcircular motion, on the principle that a pin fastened in theperiphery of a gear wheel will describe a straight line when thewheel rolls around inside a fixed internal gear of twice itsdiameter.
EPIDEICTIC
Serving to show forth, explain, or exhibit; -- applied by theGreeks to a kind of oratory, which, by full amplification, seeks topersuade.
EPIDEMIC
An epidemic disease.
EPIDEMICALLY
In an epidemic manner.
EPIDEMIOGRAPHY
A treatise upon, or history of, epidemic diseases.
EPIDEMIOLOGICAL
Connected with, or pertaining to, epidemiology.
EPIDEMIOLOGIST
A person skilled in epidemiology.
EPIDEMIOLOGY
That branch of science which treats of epidemics.
EPIDEMY
An epidemic disease. Dunglison.
EPIDERM
The epidermis.
EPIDERMAL
Of or pertaining to the epidermis; epidermic; cuticular.
EPIDERMATIC
Epidermal. [R.]
EPIDERMATOID
Epidermoid. Owen.
EPIDERMEOUS
Epidermal. [R.]
EPIDERMIC
Epidermal; connected with the skin or the bark. Epidermicadministration of medicine (Med.), the application of medicine to theskin by friction.
EPIDERMICAL
Epidermal. [R.]
EPIDERMIDAL
Epidermal. [R.]
EPIDERMIS
The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin.See Dermis.
EPIDERMOID
Like epidermis; pertaining to the epidermis.
EPIDERMOSE
Keratin.
EPIDIDYMIS
An oblong vermiform mass on the dorsal side of the testicle,composed of numerous convolutions of the excretory duct of thatorgan.-- Ep`i*did"y*mal, a.
EPIDIDYMITIS
Inflammation of the epididymis, one of the common results ofgonorrhea.
EPIDOTE
A mineral, commonly of a yellowish green (pistachio) color,occurring granular, massive, columnar, and in monoclinic crystals. Itis a silicate of alumina, lime, and oxide of iron, or manganese.
EPIDOTIC
Related to, resembling, or containing epidote; as, an epidoticgranite.
EPIGAEA
An American genus of plants, containing but a single species(E. repens), the trailing arbutus.
EPIGAEOUS
Growing on, or close to, the ground.
EPIGASTRIAL
Epigastric.
EPIGASTRIC
Pertaining to the epigastrium, or to the epigastric region.
EPIGASTRIUM
The upper part of the abdomen.
EPIGEAL
Epigรฆous. [R.]
EPIGEE
See Perigee. [Obs.]
EPIGENE
Foreign; unnatural; unusual; -- said of forms of crystals notnatural to the substances in which they are found.
EPIGENESIS
The theory of generation which holds that the germ is createdentirely new, not merely expanded, by the procreative power of theparents. It is opposed to the theory of evolution, also tosyngenesis.
EPIGENESIST
One who believes in, or advocates the theory of, epigenesis.
EPIGENETIC
Of or pertaining to the epigenesis; produced according to thetheory of epigenesis.
EPIGEOUS
Same as Epigรฆous.
EPIGEUM
See Perigee. [Obs.]
EPIGLOTTIC
Pertaining to, or connected with, the epiglottis.
EPIGLOTTIDEAN
Same as Epiglottic.
EPIGLOTTIS
A cartilaginous lidlike appendage which closes the glottiswhile food or drink is passing while food or drink is passing throughthe pharynx.
EPIGNATHOUS
Hook-billed; having the upper mandible longer than the lower.
EPIGRAMMATICALLY
In the way of epigram; in an epigrammatic style.
EPIGRAMMATIST
One who composes epigrams, or makes use of them.The brisk epigrammatist showing off his own cleverness. Holmes.
EPIGRAMMATIZE
To represent by epigrams; to express by epigrams.
EPIGRAMMATIZER
One who writes in an affectedly pointed style.Epigrammatizers of our English prose style. Coleridge.
EPIGRAMMIST
An epigrammatist. Jer. Taylor.
EPIGRAPH
A citation from some author, or a sentence framed for thepurpose, placed at the beginning of a work or of its separatedivisions; a motto.
EPIGRAPHICS
The science or study of epigraphs.
EPIGRAPHIST
A student of, or one versed in, epigraphy.
EPIGRAPHY
The science of inscriptions; the art of engraving inscriptionsor of deciphering them.
EPIGYNOUS
Adnate to the surface of the ovary, so as to be apparentlyinserted upon the top of it; -- said of stamens, petals, sepals, andalso of the disk.
EPIHYAL
A segment next above the ceratohyal in the hyoidean arch.
EPILEPSY
The "falling sickness," so called because the patient fallssuddenly to the ground; a disease characterized by paroxysms (orfits) occurring at interval and attended by sudden loss ofconsciousness, and convulsive motions of the muscles. Dunglison.
EPILEPTIC
Pertaining to, affected with, or of the nature of, epilepsy.
EPILEPTICAL
Epileptic.
EPILEPTIFORM
Resembling epilepsy.
EPILEPTOGENOUS
Producing epilepsy or epileptoid convulsions; -- applied toareas of the body or of the nervous system, stimulation of whichproduces convulsions.
EPILEPTOID
Resembling epilepsy; as, epileptoid convulsions.
EPILOGATION
A summing up in a brief account. [Obs.] Udall.
EPILOGISM
Enumeration; computation. [R.] J. Gregory.
EPILOGISTIC
Of or pertaining to epilogue; of the nature of an epilogue. T.Warton.
EPILOGIZE
To speak an epilogue to; to utter as an epilogue.
EPILOGUE
A speech or short poem addressed to the spectators and recitedby one of the actors, after the conclusion of the play.A good play no epilogue, yet . . . good plays prove the better by thehelp of good epilogues. Shak.
EPILOGUIZE
Same as Epilogize.
EPIMACHUS
A genus of highly ornate and brilliantly colored birds ofAustralia, allied to the birds of Paradise.
EPIMERA
See Epimeron.
EPIMERAL
Pertaining to the epimera.
EPIMERE
One of the segments of the transverse axis, or the so calledhomonymous parts; as, for example, one of the several segments of theextremities in vertebrates, or one of the similar segments in plants,such as the segments of a segmented leaf. Syd. Soc. Lex.
EPINASTIC
A term applied to that phase of vegetable growth in which anorgan grows more rapidly on its upper than on its under surface. SeeHyponastic.
EPINEURAL
Arising from the neurapophysis of a vertebra.
EPINEURIUM
The connective tissue framework and sheath of a nerve whichbind together the nerve bundles, each of which has its own specialsheath, or perineurium.
EPINGLETTE
An iron needle for piercing the cartridge of a cannon beforepriming.
EPINICIAL
Relating to victory. "An epinicial song." T. Warton.
EPINICION
A song of triumph. [Obs.] T. Warton.
EPINIKIAN
Epinicial.
EPIORNIS
One of the gigantic ostrichlike birds of the genus รpiornis,only recently extinct. Its remains have been found in Madagascar.[Written also รpyornis.]
EPIOTIC
The upper and outer element of periotic bone, -- in man forminga part of the temporal bone.
EPIPEDOMETRY
The mensuration of figures standing on the same base. [Obs.]
EPIPERIPHERAL
Connected with, or having its origin upon, the external surfaceof the body; -- especially applied to the feelings which originate atthe extremities of nerves distributed on the outer surface, as thesensation produced by touching an object with the finger; -- opposedto entoperipheral. H. Spenser.
EPIPETALOUS
Borne on the petals or corolla.
EPIPHANY
A church festival celebrated on the 6th of January, the twelfthday after Christmas, in commemoration of the visit of the Magi of theEast to Bethlehem, to see and worship the child Jesus; or, as othersmaintain, to commemorate the appearance of the star to the Magi,symbolizing the manifestation of Christ to the Gentles; Twelfthtide.
EPIPHARYNGEAL
Pertaining to the segments above the epibranchial in thebranchial arches of fishes.-- n.
EPIPHARYNX
A structure which overlaps the mouth of certain insects.
EPIPHONEMA
An exclamatory sentence, or striking reflection, which sums upor concludes a discourse.
EPIPHONEME
Epiphonema. [R.]
EPIPHORA
The watery eye; a disease in which the tears accumulate in theeye, and trickle over the cheek.
EPIPHRAGM
A membranaceous or calcareous septum with which some mollusksclose the aperture of the shell during the time of hibernation, orรฆstivation.
EPIPHYLLOSPERMOUS
Bearing fruit on the back of the leaves, as ferns. Harris(1710).
EPIPHYLLOUS
Growing upon, or inserted into, the leaf.
EPIPHYLLUM
A genus of cactaceous plants having flattened, jointed stems,and petals united in a tube. The flowers are very showy, and severalspecies are in cultivation.
EPIPHYTAL
Pertaining to an epiphyte.
EPIPHYTE
An air plant which grows on other plants, but does not deriveits nourishment from them. See Air plant.
EPIPLASTRON
One of the first pair of lateral plates in the plastron ofturtles.
EPIPLEURAL
Arising from the pleurapophysis of a vertebra. Owen.
EPIPLEXIS
A figure by which a person seeks to convince and move by anelegant kind of upbraiding.
EPIPLOCE
A figure by which one striking circumstance is added, in duegradation, to another; climax; e. g., "He not only spared hisenemies, but continued them in employment; not only continued, butadvanced them." Johnson.
EPIPLOIC
Relating to the epiploรถn.
EPIPODIAL
Pertaining to the epipodialia or the parts of the limbs towhich they belong.
EPIPODIALE
One of the bones of either the forearm or shank, theepipodialia being the radius, ulna, tibia, and fibula.
EPIPODITE
The outer branch of the legs in certain Crustacea. SeeMaxilliped.
EPIPODIUM
One of the lateral lobes of the foot in certain gastropods.
EPIPOLIC
Producing, or relating to, epipolism or fluorescence. [R.]
EPIPOLISM
See Fluorescence. [R.] Sir J. Herschel.
EPIPOLIZED
Changed to the epipolic condition, or that in which thephenomenon of fluorescence is presented; produced by fluorescence;as, epipolized light. [R.] Stokes.
EPIPTERIC
Pertaining to a small Wormian bone sometimes present in thehuman skull between the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid.-- n.
EPIPTERYGOID
Situated upon or above the pterygoid bone.-- n.
EPIPUBIC
Relating to the epipubis.
EPIPUBIS
A cartilage or bone in front of the pubis in some amphibiansand other animals.
EPISCOPACY
Government of the church by bishops; church government by threedistinct orders of ministers -- bishops, priests, and deacons -- ofwhom the bishops have an authority superior and of a different kind.
EPISCOPALIAN
Pertaining to bishops, or government by bishops; episcopal;specifically, of or relating to the Protestant Episcopal Church.
EPISCOPALIANISM
The doctrine and usages of Episcopalians; episcopacy.
EPISCOPALLY
By episcopal authority; in an episcopal manner.
EPISCOPANT
A bishop. [Obs.] Milton.
EPISCOPARIAN
Episcopal. [R.] Wood.
EPISCOPATE
To act as a bishop; to fill the office of a prelate. [Obs.]Feeding the flock episcopating. Milton.
EPISCOPICIDE
The killing of a bishop.
EPISCOPIZE
To make a bishop of by consecration. Southey.
EPISEPALOUS
Growing on the sepals or adnate to them.
EPISKELETAL
Above or outside of the endoskeleton; epaxial.
EPISODAL
Same as Episodic.
EPISODE
A separate incident, story, or action, introduced for thepurpose of giving a greater variety to the events related; anincidental narrative, or digression, separable from the main subject,but naturally arising from it.
EPISODIAL
Pertaining to an episode; by way of episode; episodic.
EPISPADIAS
A deformity in which the urethra opens upon the top of thepenis, instead of at its extremity.
EPISPASTIC
Attracting the humors to the skin; exciting action in the skin;blistering.
EPISPERM
The skin or coat of a seed, especially the outer coat. SeeTesta.
EPISPERMIC
Pertaining, or belonging, to the episperm, or covering of aseed.
EPISPORE
The thickish outer coat of certain spores.
EPISTAXIS
Bleeding at the nose.
EPISTEMOLOGY
The theory or science of the method or grounds of knowledge.
EPISTERNAL
Of or pertaining to the episternum.
EPISTERNUM
One of the lateral pieces next to the sternum in the thorax ofinsects.
EPISTILBITE
A crystallized, transparent mineral of the Zeolite family. Itis a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime.
EPISTLE
One of the letters in the New Testament which were addressed totheir Christian brethren by Apostles. Epistle side, the right side ofan altar or church to a person looking from the nave toward thechancel.One sees the pulpit on the epistle side. R. Browning.
EPISTLER
The ecclesiastic who reads the epistle at the communionservice.
EPISTOLAR
Epistolary. Dr. H. More.
EPISTOLEAN
One who writes epistles; a correspondent. Mary Cowden Clarke.
EPISTOLER
One of the clergy who reads the epistle at the communionservice; an epistler.
EPISTOLET
A little epistle. Lamb.
EPISTOLIZE
To write epistles.
EPISTOLIZER
A writer of epistles.
EPISTOLOGRAPHIC
Pertaining to the writing of letters; used in writing letters;epistolary. Epistolographic character or mode of writing, the same asDemotic character. See under Demotic.
EPISTOLOGRAPHY
The art or practice of writing epistles.
EPISTROPHE
A figure in which successive clauses end with the same word oraffirmation; e. g., "Are they Hebrews so am I. Are they Israelites soam I." 2 Cor. xi. 22.
EPISTYLE
A massive piece of stone or wood laid immediately on the abacusof the capital of a column or pillar; -- now called architrave.
EPISYLLOGISM
A syllogism which assumes as one of its premises a propositionwhich was the conclusion of a preceding syllogism, called, inrelation to this, the prosyllogism.
EPITAPH
To commemorate by an epitaph. [R.]Let me be epitaphed the inventor of English hexameters. G. Harvey.
EPITAPHER
A writer of epitaphs. Nash.
EPITAPHIC
Pertaining to an epitaph; epitaphian.-- n.
EPITAPHIST
An epitapher.
EPITASIS
The period of violence in a fever or disease; paroxysm.Dunglison.
EPITHALAMIC
Belonging to, or designed for, an epithalamium.
EPITHALAMIUM
A nuptial song, or poem in honor of the bride and bridegroom.The kind of poem which was called epithalamium . . . sung when thebride was led into her chamber. B. Jonson.
EPITHALAMY
Epithalamium. [R.] Donne.
EPITHECA
A continuous and, usually, structureless layer which coversmore or less of the exterior of many corals.
EPITHELIAL
Of or pertaining to epithelium; as, epithelial cells;epithelial cancer.
EPITHELIOID
Like epithelium; as, epithelioid cells.
EPITHELIOMA
A malignant growth containing epithelial cells; -- called alsoepithelial cancer.
EPITHELIUM
The superficial layer of cells lining the alimentary canal andall its appendages, all glands and their ducts, blood vessels andlymphatics, serous cavities, etc. It often includes the epidermis (i.e., keratin-producing epithelial cells), and it is sometimesrestricted to the alimentary canal, the glands and their appendages,-- the term endothelium being applied to the lining membrane of theblood vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities.
EPITHELOID
Epithelioid.
EPITHEM
Any external topical application to the body, except ointmentsand plasters, as a poultice, lotion, etc.
EPITHEMA
A horny excrescence upon the beak of birds.
EPITHESIS
The addition of a letter at the end of a word, without changingits sense; as, numb for num, whilst for whiles.
EPITHET
To describe by an epithet. [R.]Never was a town better epitheted. Sir H. Wotton.
EPITHITE
A lazy, worthless fellow; a vagrant. [Obs.] Mason.
EPITHUMETIC
Epithumetical. [Obs.]
EPITHUMETICAL
Pertaining to sexual desire; sensual. Sir T. Browne.
EPITITHIDES
The uppermost member of the cornice of an entablature.
EPITOMATOR
An epitomist. Sir W. Hamilton.
EPITOMIST
One who makes an epitome; one who abridges; an epitomizer.Milton.
EPITOMIZER
An epitomist. Burton.
EPITRITE
A foot consisting of three long syllables and one shortsyllable.
EPITROCHLEA
A projection on the outer side of the distal end of thehumerus; the external condyle.
EPITROCHLEAR
Relating to the epitrochlea.
EPITROCHOID
A kind of curve. See Epicycloid, any Trochoid.
EPITROPE
A figure by which permission is either seriously or ironicallygranted to some one, to do what he proposes to do; e. g., "He that isunjust, let him be unjust still."
EPIZEUXIS
A figure by which a word is repeated with vehemence oremphasis, as in the following lines: -Alone, alone, all all alone, Alone on a wide wide sea. Coleridge.
EPIZOAN
An epizoรถn.
EPIZOIC
Living upon the exterior of another animal; ectozoic; -- saidof external parasites.
EPOCH
A division of time characterized by the prevalence of similarconditions of the earth; commonly a minor division or part of aperiod.The long geological epoch which stored up the vast coal measures. J.C. Shairp.
EPOCHA
See Epoch. J. Adams.
EPOCHAL
Belonging to an epoch; of the nature of an epoch. "Epochalpoints." Shedd.
EPODIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode.
EPONYMIC
Same as Eponymous.Tablets . . . which bear eponymic dates. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
EPONYMIST
One from whom a race, tribe, city, or the like, took its name;an eponym.
EPONYMOUS
Relating to an eponym; giving one's name to a tribe, people,country, and the like.What becomes . . . of the Herakleid genealogy of the Spartan kings,when it is admitted that eponymous persons are to be canceled asfictions Grote.
EPONYMY
The derivation of the name of a race, tribe, etc., from that ofa fabulous hero, progenitor, etc.
EPOPT
One instructed in the mysteries of a secret system. Carlyle.
EPOS
An epic.
EPOTATION
A drinking up; a quaffing. [Obs.] Feltham.
EPROUVETTE
An apparatus for testing or proving the strength of gunpowder.
EPSOMITE
Native sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salt.
EPULARY
Of or pertaining to a feast or banquet. [Obs.] Smart.
EPULATION
A feasting or feast; banquet. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EPULIS
A hard tumor developed from the gums.
EPULOSE
Feasting to excess. [Obs.]
EPULOSITY
A feasting to excess. [Obs.]
EPULOTIC
Promoting the skinning over or healing of sores; as, anepulotic ointment.-- n.
EPURATION
Purification.
EPURE
A draught or model from which to build; especially, one of thefull size of the work to be done; a detailed drawing.
EPWORTH LEAGUE
A religious organization of Methodist young people, founded in1889 at Cleveland, Ohio, and taking its name from John Wesley'sbirthplace, Epworth, Lincolnshire, England.
EQUABILITY
The quality or condition of being equable; evenness oruniformity; as, equability of temperature; the equability of themind.For the celestial bodies, the equability and constancy of theirmotions argue them ordained by wisdom. Ray.
EQUABLENESS
Quality or state of being equable.
EQUABLY
In an equable manner.
EQUAL
Intended for voices of one kind only, either all male or allfemale; -- opposed to mixed. [R.]
EQUALITARIAN
One who believes in equalizing the condition of men; a leveler.
EQUALITY
Exact agreement between two expressions or magnitudes withrespect to quantity; -- denoted by the symbol =; thus, a = xsignifies that a contains the same number and kind of units ofmeasure that x does. Confessional equality. See under Confessional.
EQUALIZATION
The act of equalizing, or state of being equalized.Their equalization with the rest of their fellow subjects. Burke.
EQUALIZER
One who, or that which, equalizes anything.
EQUALLY
In an equal manner or degree in equal shares or proportion;with equal and impartial justice; without difference; alike; evenly;justly; as, equally taxed, furnished, etc.
EQUALNESS
Equality; evenness. Shak.
EQUANGULAR
Having equal angles; equiangular. [R.] Johnson.
EQUANIMITY
Evenness of mind; that calm temper or firmness of mind which isnot easily elated or depressed; patience; calmness; composure; as, tobear misfortunes with equanimity.
EQUANIMOUS
Of an even, composed frame of mind; of a steady temper; noteasily elated or depressed. Bp. Gauden.
EQUANT
A circle around whose circumference a planet or the center ofann epicycle was conceived to move uniformly; -- called alsoeccentric equator.
EQUATE
To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such anallowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard ofcomparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments;to equate lines of railroad for grades or curves; equated distances.Palgrave gives both scrolle and scrowe and equates both to F[rench]rolle. Skeat (Etymol. Dict. ).Equating for grades (Railroad Engin.), adding to the measureddistance one mile for each twenty feet of ascent.-- Equating for curves, adding half a mile for each 360 degrees ofcurvature.
EQUATION
An expression of the condition of equality between twoalgebraic quantities or sets of quantities, the sign = being placedbetween them; as, a binomial equation; a quadratic equation; analgebraic equation; a transcendental equation; an exponentialequation; a logarithmic equation; a differential equation, etc.
EQUATOR
The imaginary great circle on the earth's surface, everywhereequally distant from the two poles, and dividing the earth's surfaceinto two hemispheres.
EQUATORIAL
Of or pertaining to the equator; as, equatorial climates; also,pertaining to an equatorial instrument.
EQUATORIALLY
So as to have motion or direction parallel to the equator.
EQUERY
Same as Equerry.
EQUESTRIAN
One who rides on horseback; a horseman; a rider.
EQUESTRIANISM
The art of riding on horseback; performance on horseback;horsemanship; as, feats equestrianism.
EQUESTRIENNE
A woman skilled in equestrianism; a horsewoman.
EQUI-
A prefix, meaning equally; as, equidistant; equiangular.
EQUIANGLED
Equiangular. [Obs.] Boyle.
EQUIANGULAR
Having equal angles; as, an equiangular figure; a square isequiangular. Equiangular spiral. (Math.) See under Spiral, n.-- Mutually equiangular, applied to two figures, when every angle ofthe one has its equal among the angles of the other.
EQUIBALANCE
Equal weight; equiponderance.
EQUICRESCENT
Increasing by equal increments; as, an equicrescent variable.
EQUICRURAL
Having equal legs or sides; isosceles. [R.] "Equicruraltriangles." Sir T. Browne.
EQUICRURE
Equicrural. [Obs.]
EQUIDIFFERENT
Having equal differences; as, the terms of arithmeticalprogression are equidifferent.
EQUIDISTANCE
Equal distance.
EQUIDISTANT
Being at an equal distance from the same point or thing.-- E`qui*dis"tant*ly, adv. Sir T. Browne.
EQUIDIURNAL
Pertaining to the time of equal day and night; -- applied tothe equinoctial line. Whewell.
EQUIFORM
Having the same form; uniform.-- E`qui*for"mi*ty, n. Sir T. Browne.
EQUILATERAL
Having all the sides equal; as, an equilateral triangle; anequilateral polygon. Equilateral hyperbola (Geom.), one whose axesare equal.-- Equilateral shell (Zoรถl.), one in which a transverse line drawnthrough the apex of the umbo bisects the valve, or divides it intotwo equal and symmetrical parts.-- Mutually equilateral, applied to two figures, when every side ofthe one has its equal among the sides of the other.
EQUILIBRATE
To balance two scales, sides, or ends; to keep even with equalweight on each side; to keep in equipoise. H. Spenser.
EQUILIBRATION
The process by which animal and vegetable organisms preserve aphysiological balance. H. Spenser.
EQUILIBRIOUS
Evenly poised; balanced. Dr. H. More.-- E`qui*lib"ri*ous*ly, adv.
EQUILIBRIST
One who balances himself in unnatural positions and hazardousmovements; a balancer.When the equilibrist balances a rod upon his finger. Stewart.
EQUILIBRITY
The state of being balanced; equality of weight. [R.] J.Gregory.
EQUIMOMENTAL
Having equal moments of inertia.
EQUIMULTIPLE
Multiplied by the same number or quantity.
EQUINAL
See Equine. "An equinal shape." Heywood.
EQUINE
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse.The shoulders, body, things, and mane are equine; the head completelybovine. Sir J. Barrow.
EQUINIA
Glanders.
EQUINOCTIAL
The equinoctial line.
EQUINOCTIALLY
Towards the equinox.
EQUINUMERANT
Equal as to number. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.
EQUIPAGED
Furnished with equipage.Well dressed, well bred. Well equipaged, is ticket good enough.Cowper.
EQUIPARABLE
Comparable. [Obs. or R.]
EQUIPARATE
To compare. [R.]
EQUIPEDAL
Equal-footed; having the pairs of feet equal.
EQUIPENDENCY
The act or condition of hanging in equipoise; not inclined ordetermined either way. South.
EQUIPENSATE
To weigh equally; to esteem alike. [Obs.]
EQUIPOISE
Sameness of signification of two or more propositions whichdiffer in language.
EQUIPOLLENT
Having equivalent signification and reach; expressing the samething, but differently.
EQUIPOLLENTLY
With equal power. Barrow.
EQUIPONDERANT
Being of the same weight.A column of air . . . equiponderant to a column of quicksilver.Locke.
EQUIPONDERATE
To be equal in weight; to weigh as much as another thing. Bp.Wilkins.
EQUIPONDEROUS
Having equal weight. Bailey.
EQUIPONDIOUS
Of equal weight on both sides; balanced. [Obs.] Glanvill.
EQUIPOTENTIAL
Having the same potential. Equipotential surface, a surface forwhich the potential is for all points of the surface constant. Levelsurfaces on the earth are equipotential.
EQUIRADICAL
Equally radical. [R.] Coleridge.
EQUIROTAL
Having wheels of the same size or diameter; having equalrotation. [R.]
EQUISETACEOUS
Belonging to the Equisetaceรฆ, or Horsetail family.
EQUISETIFORM
Having the form of the equisetum.
EQUISETUM
A genus of vascular, cryptogamic, herbaceous plants; -- alsocalled horsetails.
EQUISONANCE
An equal sounding; the consonance of the unison and itsoctaves.
EQUISONANT
Of the same or like sound.
EQUITABLE
That can be sustained or made available or effective in a courtof equity, or upon principles of equity jurisprudence; as, anequitable estate; equitable assets, assignment, mortgage, etc.Abbott.
EQUITABLENESS
The quality of being equitable, just, or impartial; as, theequitableness of a judge, a decision, or distribution of property.
EQUITABLY
In an equitable manner; justly; as, the laws should beequitably administered.
EQUITANCY
Horsemanship.
EQUITANT
Overlapping each other; -- said of leaves whose bases arefolded so as to overlap and bestride the leaves within or above them,as in the iris.
EQUITATION
A riding, or the act of riding, on horseback; horsemanship.The pretender to equitation mounted. W. Irving.
EQUITEMPORANEOUS
Contemporaneous. [Obs.] Boyle.
EQUITES
An order of knights holding a middle place between the senateand the commonalty; members of the Roman equestrian order.
EQUITY
An equitable claim; an equity of redemption; as, an equity to asettlement, or wife's equity, etc.I consider the wife's equity to be too well settled to be shaken.Kent.
EQUIVALENCE
To be equivalent or equal to; to counterbalance. [R.] Sir T.Browne.
EQUIVALENCY
Same as Equivalence.
EQUIVALENT
Equal in measure but not admitting of superposition; -- appliedto magnitudes; as, a square may be equivalent to a triangle.
EQUIVALENTLY
In an equal manner.
EQUIVALUE
To put an equal value upon; to put (something) on a par withanother thing. W. Taylor.
EQUIVALVULAR
Same as Equivalve or Equivalved.
EQUIVOCACY
Equivocalness.
EQUIVOCAL
A word or expression capable of different meanings; anambiguous term; an equivoque.In languages of great ductility, equivocals like that just referredto are rarely found. Fitzed. Hall.
EQUIVOCALLY
In an equivocal manner.
EQUIVOCALNESS
The state of being equivocal.
EQUIVOCATE
To use words of equivocal or doubtful signification; to expressone's opinions in terms which admit of different senses, with intentto deceive; to use ambiguous expressions with a view to mislead; as,to equivocate is the work of duplicity.All that Garnet had to say for him was that he supposed he meant toequivocate. Bp. Stillingfleet.
EQUIVOCATION
The use of expressions susceptible of a double signification,with a purpose to mislead.There being no room for equivocations, there is no need ofdistinctions. Locke.
EQUIVOCATOR
One who equivocates.Here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales againsteither scale, yet could not equivocate to heaven. Shak.
EQUIVOCATORY
Indicating, or characterized by, equivocation.
EQUIVOROUS
Feeding on horseflesh; as, equivorous Tartars.
EQUUS
A genus of mammals, including the horse, ass, etc.
ERADIATE
To shoot forth, as rays of light; to beam; to radiate. Dr. H.More.
ERADIATION
Emission of radiance.
ERADICABLE
Capable of being eradicated.
ERADICATIVE
Tending or serving to eradicate; curing or destroyingthoroughly, as a disease or any evil.
ERASABLE
Capable of being erased.
ERASED
Represented with jagged and uneven edges, as is torn off; --used esp. of the head or limb of a beast. Cf. Couped.
ERASEMENT
The act of erasing; a rubbing out; expunction; obliteration.Johnson.
ERASER
One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or apiece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc.
ERASION
The act of erasing; a rubbing out; obliteration.
ERASTIAN
One of the followers of Thomas Erastus, a German physician andtheologian of the 16th century. He held that the punishment of alloffenses should be referred to the civil power, and that holycommunion was open to all. In the present day, an Erastian is one whowould see the church placed entirely under the control of the State.Shipley.
ERASTIANISM
The principles of the Erastains.
ERASURE
The act of erasing; a scratching out; obliteration.
ERATIVE
Pertaining to the Muse Erato who presided over amatory poetry.Stormonth.
ERATO
The Muse who presided over lyric and amatory poetry.
ERBIUM
A rare metallic element associated with several other rareelements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden. Symbol Er.Atomic weight 165.9. Its salts are rose-colored and givecharacteristic spectra. Its sesquioxide is called erbia.
ERCEDEKEN
An archdeacon. [Obs.]
ERD
The earth. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. Erd shrew (Zoรถl.), the commonEuropean shrew (Sorex vulgaris); the shrewmouse.
ERE
To plow. [Obs.] See Ear, v. t. Chaucer.
EREBUS
A place of nether darkness, being the gloomy space throughwhich the souls passed to Hades. See Milton's "Paradise Lost," BookII., line 883.
ERECT
Standing upright, with reference to the earth's surface, or tothe surface to which it is attached.
ERECTABLE
Capable of being erected; as, an erectable feather. Col. G.Montagu.
ERECTER
An erector; one who raises or builds.
ERECTILE
Capable of being erected; susceptible of being erected ofdilated. Erectile tissue (Anat.), a tissue which is capable of beinggreatly dilated and made rigid by the distension of the numerousblood vessels which it contains.
ERECTILITY
The quality or state of being erectile.
ERECTION
The state of a part which, from having been soft, has becomehard and swollen by the accumulation of blood in the erectile tissue.
ERECTIVE
Making erect or upright; raising; tending to erect.
ERECTLY
In an erect manner or posture.
ERECTNESS
Uprightness of posture or form.
ERECTO-PATENT
Having a position intermediate between erect and patent, orspreading.
ERECTOR
A muscle which raises any part.
ERELONG
Before the ere long.A man, . . . following the stag, erelong slew him. Spenser.The world, erelong, a world of tears must weep. Milton.
EREMACAUSIS
A gradual oxidation from exposure to air and moisture, as inthe decay of old trees or of dead animals.
EREMITAGE
See Hermitage.
EREMITE
A hermit.Thou art my heaven, and I thy eremite. Keats.
EREMITISH
Eremitic. Bp. Hall.
EREMITISM
The state of a hermit; a living in seclusion from social life.
EREPTATION
A creeping forth. [Obs.]
EREPTION
A snatching away. [Obs.] Cockeram.
ERETHISM
A morbid degree of excitement or irritation in an organ.Hoblyn.
ERETHISTIC
Relating to erethism.
ERF
A garden plot, usually about half an acre. [Cape Colony]
ERG
The unit of work or energy in the C. G. S. system, being theamount of work done by a dyne working through a distance of onecentimeter; the amount of energy expended in moving a body onecentimeter against a force of one dyne. One foot pound is equal to13,560,000 ergs.
ERGAL
Potential energy; negative value of the force function.
ERGAT
To deduce logically, as conclusions. [Obs.] Hewyt.
ERGMETER
An instrument for measuring energy in ergs.
ERGO
Therefore; consequently; -- often used in a jocular way. Shak.
ERGOGRAPH
An instrument for measuring and recording the work done by asingle muscle or set of muscles, the rate of fatigue, etc. --Er`go*graph"ic (#), a.
ERGOMETER
A device for measuring, or an instrument for indicating, energyexpended or work done; a dynamometer. -- Er`go*met"ric (#), a.
ERGOT
A stub, like soft horn, about the size of a chestnut, situatedbehind and below the pastern joint.
ERGOTIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, ergot; as, ergotic acid.
ERGOTIN
An extract made from ergot.
ERGOTINE
A powerful astringent alkaloid extracted from ergot as a brown,amorphous, bitter substance. It is used to produce contraction of theuterus.
ERGOTISM
A logical deduction. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ERGOTIZED
Affected with the ergot fungus; as, ergotized rye.
ERICA
A genus of shrubby plants, including the heaths, many of themproducing beautiful flowers.
ERICACEOUS
Belonging to the Heath family, or resembling plants of thatfamily; consisting of heats.
ERICINOL
A colorless oil (quickly becoming brown), with a pleasant odor,obtained by the decomposition of ericolin.
ERICIUS
The Vulgate rendering of the Hebrew word qipod, which in the"Authorized Version" is translated bittern, and in the RevisedVersion, porcupine.I will make it [Babylon] a possession for the ericius and pools ofwaters. Is. xiv. 23 (Douay version).
ERICOLIN
A glucoside found in the bearberry (and others of theEricaceรฆ), and extracted as a bitter, yellow, amorphous mass.
ERIDANUS
A long, winding constellation extending southward from Taurusand containing the bright star Achernar.
ERIGIBLE
Capable of being erected. [Obs.]
ERIN
An early, and now a poetic, name of Ireland.
ERINACEOUS
Of the Hedgehog family; like, or characteristic of, a hedgehog.
ERINGO
The sea holly. See Eryngo.
ERINITE
A hydrous arseniate of copper, of an emerald-green color; -- socalled from Erin, or Ireland, where it occurs.
ERINYS
An avenging deity; one of the Furies; sometimes, consciencepersonified. [Written also Erinnys.]
ERIOMETER
An instrument for measuring the diameters of minute particlesor fibers, from the size of the colored rings produced by thediffraction of the light in which the objects are viewed.
ERISTALIS
A genus of dipterous insects whose young (called rat-tailedlarvรฆ) are remarkable for their long tapering tail, which spiraclesat the tip, and for their ability to live in very impure and saltwaters; -- also called drone fly.
ERKE
ASlothful. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
ERLKING
A personification, in German and Scandinavian mythology, of aspirit natural power supposed to work mischief and ruin, esp. tochildren.
ERME
To grieve; to feel sad. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ERMIN
An Armenian. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ERMINE
A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M.erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat. It is found in thenorthern parts of Asia, Europe, and America. In summer it is brown,but in winter it becomes white, except the tip of the tail, which isalways black.
ERMINED
Clothed or adorned with the fur of the ermine. Pope.
ERMIT
A hermit. [Obs.]
ERN
To stir with strong emotion; to grieve; to mourn.
ERNEST
See Earnest. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ERNESTFUL
Serious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ERODE
To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh."The blood . . . erodes the vessels." Wiseman.The smaller charge is more apt to . . . erode the gun. Am. Cyc.
ERODED
Having the edge worn away so as to be jagged or irregularlytoothed.
ERODENT
A medicine which eats away extraneous growths; a caustic.
EROGATE
To lay out, as money; to deal out; to expend. [Obs.]
EROGATION
The act of giving out or bestowing. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
EROS
Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as oneof the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son ofAphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid.
EROSE
Jagged or irregularly toothed, as if nibbled out or gnawed.-- E*rose"ly, adv.
EROSIVE
That erodes or gradually eats away; tending to erode;corrosive. Humble.
EROSTRATE
Without a beak.
EROTEME
A mark indicating a question; a note of interrogation.
EROTESIS
A figure oMust I give way and room to your rash choler Shall I be frighted whena madman stares Shak.
EROTIC
An amorous composition or poem.
EROTICISM
Erotic quality.
ERPETOLOGIST
Herpetologist.
ERPETOLOGY
Herpetology.
ERRABLE
Liable to error; fallible.
ERRABLENESS
Liability to error. Dr. H. More.
ERRABUND
Erratic. "Errabund guesses." Southey.
ERRANCY
A wandering; state of being in error.
ERRAND
A special business intrusted to a messenger; something to betold or done by one sent somewhere for the purpose; often, a verbalmessage; a commission; as, the servant was sent on an errand; to doan errand. Also, one's purpose in going anywhere.I have a secret errand to thee, O king. Judg. iii. 19.I will not eat till I have told mine errand. Gen. xxiv. 33.mission.
ERRANT
Journeying; itinerant; -- formerly applied to judges who wenton circuit and to bailiffs at large. Mozley & W.
ERRANTIA
A group of chรฆtopod annelids, including those that are notconfined to tubes. See Chรฆtopoda. [Written also Errantes.]
ERRATA
See Erratum.
ERRATIC
Any stone or material that has been borne away from itsoriginal site by natural agencies; esp., a large block or fragment ofrock; a bowlder.
ERRATICAL
Erratic.-- Er*rat"ic*al*ly, adv.-- Er*rat"ic*al*ness, n.
ERRATION
A wandering; a roving about. [Obs.] Cockeram.
ERRATUM
An error or mistake in writing or printing.A single erratum may knock out the brains of a whole passage. Cowper.
ERRHINE
A medicine designed to be snuffed up the nose, to promotedischarges of mucus; a sternutatory. Coxe.-- a.
ERROR
The difference between the approximate result and the trueresult; -- used particularly in the rule of double position.
ERRORFUL
Full of error; wrong. Foxe.
ERRORIST
One who encourages and propagates error; one who holds toerror.
ERS
The bitter vetch (Ervum Ervilia).
ERSE
A name sometimes given to that dialect of the Celtic which isspoken in the Highlands of Scotland; -- called, by the Highlanders,Gaelic.
ERSH
See Arrish.
ERSTWHILE
Till then or now; heretofore; formerly. [Archaic]
ERUBESCENT
Red, or reddish; blushing. Johnson.
ERUBESCITE
See Bornite.
ERUCA
An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva.
ERUCIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferousMediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica); as, erucic acid, a fattyacid resembling oleic acid, and found in colza oil, mustard oil, etc.
ERUCIFROM
Having the form of a caterpillar; -- said of insect larvรฆ.
ERUDIATE
To instruct; to educate; to teach. [Obs.]The skillful goddess there erudiates these In all she did. Fanshawe.
ERUDITE
Characterized by extensive reading or knowledge; wellinstructed; learned. "A most erudite prince." Sir T. More. "Erudite .. . theology." I. Taylor.-- Er"u*dite`ly, adv.-- Er"u*dite`ness, n.
ERUDITION
The act of instructing; the result of thorough instruction; thestate of being erudite or learned; the acquisitions gained byextensive reading or study; particularly, learning in literature orcriticism, as distinct from the sciences; scholarship.The management of a young lady's person is not be overlooked, but theerudition of her mind is much more to be regarded. Steele.The gay young gentleman whose erudition sat so easily upon him.Macaulay.
ERUGATE
Freed from wrinkles; smooth.
ERUGINOUS
Partaking of the substance or nature of copper, or of the rustcopper; resembling the trust of copper or verdigris; รฆruginous.
ERUMPENT
Breaking out; -- said of certain fungi which burst through thetexture of leaves.
ERUPT
To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava. Huxley.
ERUPTION
The breaking out of pimples, or an efflorescence, as inmeasles, scarlatina, etc.
ERUPTIONAL
Eruptive. [R.] R. A. Proctor.
ERUPTIVE
Attended with eruption or efflorescence, or producing it; as,an eruptive fever.
ERYNGIUM
A genus of umbelliferous plants somewhat like thistles inappearance. Eryngium maritimum, or sea holly, has been highlyesteemed as an aphrodisiac, the roots being formerly candied.
ERYNGO
A plant of the genus Eryngium.
ERYSIPELAS
St. Anthony's fire; a febrile disease accompanied with adiffused inflammation of the skin, which, starting usually from asingle point, spreads gradually over its surface. It is usuallyregarded as contagious, and often occurs epidemically.
ERYSIPELATOID
Resembling erysipelas.
ERYSIPELATOUS
Resembling erysipelas, or partaking of its nature.
ERYSIPELOUS
Erysipelatous.
ERYTHEMA
A disease of the skin, in which a diffused inflammation formsrose-colored patches of variable size.
ERYTHEMATIC
Characterized by, or causing, a morbid redness of the skin;relating to erythema.
ERYTHEMATOUS
Relating to, or causing, erythema.
ERYTHRIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, erythrin.
ERYTHRINA
A genus of leguminous plants growing in the tropics; coraltree; -- so called from its red flowers.
ERYTHRISM
A condition of excessive redness. See Erythrochroism.
ERYTHRITE
A colorless crystalline substance, C4H6.(OH)4, of a sweet,cooling taste, extracted from certain lichens, and obtained by thedecomposition of erythrin; -- called also erythrol, erythroglucin,erythromannite, pseudorcin, cobalt bloom, and under the name phyciteobtained from the alga Protococcus vulgaris. It is a tetrabasicalcohol, corresponding to glycol and glycerin.
ERYTHROCHROIC
Having, or subject to, erythrochroism.
ERYTHROCHROISM
An unusual redness, esp. in the plumage of birds, or hair ofmammals, independently of age, sex, or season.
ERYTHRODEXTRIN
A dextrin which gives a red color with iodine. See Dextrin.
ERYTHROGRANULOSE
A term applied by Brรผcke to a substance present in small amountin starch granules, colored red by iodine.
ERYTHROID
Of a red color; reddish; as, the erythroid tunic (the cremastermuscle).
ERYTHROLEIC
Having a red color and oily appearance; -- applied to a purplesemifluid substance said to be obtained from archil.
ERYTHROLEIN
A red substance obtained from litmus.
ERYTHROLITMIN
Erythrolein.
ERYTHRONIUM
A name originally given (from its red acid) to the metalvanadium. [R.]
ERYTHROPHLEINE
A white crystalline alkaloid, extracted from sassy bark(Erythrophleum Guineense).
ERYTHROXYLON
A genus of shrubs or small trees of the Flax family, growing intropical countries. E. Coca is the source of cocaine. See Coca.
ERYTHROZYME
A ferment extracted from madder root, possessing the power ofinducing alcoholic fermentation in solutions of sugar.
ESCALADE
A furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in whichladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart.Sin enters, not by escalade, but by cunning or treachery.Buckminster.
ESCALATOR
A stairway or incline arranged like an endless belt so that thesteps or treads ascend or descend continuously, and one stepping uponit is carried up or down; -- a trade term.
ESCALLOP
See Escalop.
ESCALLOPED
See Escaloped.
ESCALOP
A bivalve shell of the genus Pecten. See Scallop.
ESCALOPED
Covered with a pattern resembling a series of escalop shells,each of which issues from between two others. Its appearance is thatof a surface covered with scales. Escaloped oysters (Cookery). Seeunder Scalloped.
ESCAMBIO
A license formerly required for the making over a bill ofexchange to another over sea. Cowell.
ESCAPABLE
Avoidable.
ESCAPE
The unlawful permission, by a jailer or other custodian, of aprisoner's departure from custody.
ESCAPER
One who escapes.
ESCARBUNCLE
See Carbuncle, 3.
ESCARGATOIRE
A nursery of snails. [Obs.] Addison.
ESCARP
The side of the ditch next the parapet; -- same as scarp, andopposed to counterscarp.
ESCARPMENT
A steep descent or declivity; steep face or edge of a ridge;ground about a fortified place, cut away nearly vertically to preventhostile approach. See Scarp.
ESCHALOT
See Shallot.
ESCHAR
A dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthypart of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application ofcaustics.
ESCHARA
A genus of Bryozoa which produce delicate corals, oftenincrusting like lichens, but sometimes branched.
ESCHARINE
Like, or pertaining to, the genus Eschara, or family Escharidรฆ.
ESCHAROTIC
Serving or tending to form an eschar;; producing a scar;caustic.
ESCHATOLOGICAL
Pertaining to the last or final things.
ESCHATOLOGY
The doctrine of the last or final things, as death, judgment,and the events therewith connected.
ESCHAUNGE
Exchange. [Obs.]
ESCHEAT
To revert, or become forfeited, to the lord, the crown, or theState, as lands by the failure of persons entitled to hold the same,or by forfeiture.
ESCHEATABLE
Liable to escheat.
ESCHEATAGE
The right of succeeding to an escheat. Sherwood.
ESCHEATOR
An officer whose duty it is to observe what escheats have takenplace, and to take charge of them. Burrill.
ESCHEVIN
The alderman or chief officer of an ancient guild. [Obs.]
ESCHEWER
One who eschews.
ESCHEWMENT
The act of eschewing. [R.]
ESCHSCHOLTZIA
A genus of papaveraceous plants, found in California and uponthe west coast of North America, some species of which producebeautiful yellow, orange, rose-colored, or white flowers; theCalifornia poppy.
ESCHYNITE
A rare mineral, containing chiefly niobium, titanium, thorium,and cerium. It was so called by Berzelius on account of the inabilityof chemical science, at the time of its discovery, to separate someof its constituents.
ESCOCHEON
Escutcheon. [Obs.]
ESCORIAL
See Escurial.
ESCORT
To attend with a view to guard and protect; to accompany assafeguard; to give honorable or ceremonious attendance to; -- usedesp. with reference to journeys or excursions on land; as, to escorta public functionary, or a lady; to escort a baggage wagon.
ESCOT
See Scot, a tax. [Obs.]
ESCOUADE
See Squad,
ESCOUT
See Scout. [Obs.] Hayward.
ESCRIBED
Drawn outside of; -- used to designate a circle that touchesone of the sides of a given triangle, and also the other two sidesproduced.
ESCRIPT
A writing. [Obs.]
ESCRITOIRE
A piece of furniture used as a writing table, commonly withdrawers, pigeonholes, and the like; a secretary or writing desk.
ESCRITORIAL
Of or pertaining to an escritoire.
ESCROD
See Scrod, a young cod.
ESCROW
A deed, bond, or other written engagement, delivered to a thirdperson, to be held by him till some act is done or some condition isperformed, and then to be by him delivered to the grantee.Blackstone.
ESCUAGE
Service of the shield, a species of knight service by which atenant was bound to follow his lord to war, at his own charge. It wasafterward exchanged for a pecuniary satisfaction. Called alsoscutage. Blackstone.
ESCULAPIAN
รsculapian.
ESCULAPIUS
Same as รsculapius.
ESCULENT
Suitable to be used by man for food; eatable; edible; as,esculent plants; esculent fish.Esculent grain for food. Sir W. Jones.Esculent swallow (Zoรถl.), the swallow which makes the edible bird's-nest. See Edible bird's-nest, under Edible.
ESCULIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, the horse-chestnut; as,esculic acid.
ESCULIN
A glucoside obtained from the รsculus hippocastanum, or horse-chestnut, and characterized by its fine blue fluorescent solutions.[Written also รฆsculin.]
ESCURIAL
A palace and mausoleum of the kinds of Spain, being a vast andwonderful structure about twenty-five miles northwest of Madrid.
ESCUTCHEON
The surface, usually a shield, upon which bearings aremarshaled and displayed. The surface of the escutcheon is called thefield, the upper part is called the chief, and the lower part thebase (see Chiff, and Field.). That side of the escutcheon which is onthe right hand of the knight who bears the shield on his arm iscalled dexter, and the other side sinister.
ESCUTCHEONED
Having an escutcheon; furnished with a coat of arms or ensign.Young.
ESE
Ease; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ESEMPLASTIC
Shaped into one; tending to, or formative into, unity. [R.]Coleridge.
ESERINE
An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean, and the seed ofPhysostigma venenosum; physostigmine. It is used in ophthalmicsurgery for its effect in contracting the pupil.
ESEXUAL
Sexless; asexual.
ESGUARD
Guard. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
ESKIMO
One of a peculiar race inhabiting Arctic America and Greenland.In many respects the Eskimos resemble the Mongolian race. [Writtenalso Esquimau.] Eskimo dog (Zoรถl.), one of breed of large andpowerful dogs used by the Eskimos to draw sledges. It closelyresembles the gray wolf, with which it is often crossed.
ESLOIN
To remove; to banish; to withdraw; to avoid; to eloign. [Obs.]From worldly cares he did himself esloin. Spenser.
ESNECY
A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose firstafter an inheritance is divide. Mozley & W.
ESODIC
Conveying impressions from the surface of the body to thespinal cord; -- said of certain nerves. Opposed to exodic.
ESOPHAGAL
Esophageal.
ESOPHAGEAL
Pertaining to the esophagus. [Written also .]
ESOPHAGEAN
Esophageal.
ESOPHAGOTOMY
The operation of making an incision into the esophagus, for thepurpose of removing any foreign substance that obstructs the passage.[Written also oesophagotomy.]
ESOPHAGUS
That part of the alimentary canal between the pharynx and thestomach; the gullet. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, underDigestive. [Written also .]
ESOTERIC
Designed for, and understood by, the specially initiated alone;not communicated, or not intelligible, to the general body offollowers; private; interior; acroamatic; -- said of the private andmore recondite instructions and doctrines of philosophers. Opposed toexoteric.Enough if every age produce two or three critics of this esotericclass, with here and there a reader to understand them. De Quincey.
ESOTERICAL
Esoteric.
ESOTERICALLY
In an esoteric manner.
ESOTERICISM
Esoteric doctrine or principles.
ESOTERICS
Mysterious or hidden doctrines; secret science.
ESOTERY
Mystery; esoterics; -- opposed to exotery. A. Tucker.
ESOX
A genus of fresh-water fishes, including pike and pickerel.
ESPACE
Space. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ESPADON
A long, heavy, two-handed and two-edged sword, formerly used bySpanish foot soldiers and by executioners. Wilhelm.
ESPALIER
A railing or trellis upon which fruit trees or shrubs aretrained, as upon a wall; a tree or row of trees so trained.And figs from standard and espalier join. Pope.
ESPARCET
The common sainfoin (Onobrychis sativa), an Old Worldleguminous forage plant.
ESPARTO
A species of Spanish grass (Macrochloa tenacissima), of whichcordage, shoes, baskets, etc., are made. It is also used for makingpaper.
ESPAULIERE
A defense for the shoulder, composed of flexible overlappingplates of metal, used in the 15th century; -- the origin of themodern epaulette. Fairholt.
ESPECIAL
Distinguished among others of the same class or kind; special;concerning a species or a single object; principal; particular; as,in an especial manner or degree.
ESPECIALLY
In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in anuncommon degree.
ESPECIALNESS
The state of being especial.
ESPERANCE
Hope. [Obs.] Shak.
ESPERANTO
An artificial language, intended to be universal, devised byDr. Zamenhof, a Russian, who adopted the pseudonym "Dr. Esperanto" inpublishing his first pamphlet regarding it in 1887. The vocabulary isvery largely based upon words common to the chief European languages,and sounds peculiar to any one language are eliminated. The spellingis phonetic, and the accent (stress) is always on the penult. --Es`pe*ran"tist (#), n.
ESPIAILLE
Espial. [Obs.]
ESPIER
One who espies. Harmar.
ESPINEL
A kind of ruby. See Spinel.
ESPIONAGE
The practice or employment of spies; the practice of watchingthe words and conduct of others, to make discoveries, as spies orsecret emissaries; secret watching.
ESPLANADE
A grass plat; a lawn. Simmonds.
ESPLEES
The full profits or products which ground or land yields, asthe hay of the meadows, the feed of the pasture, the grain of arablefields, the rents, services, and the like. Cowell.
ESPOUSAGE
Espousal. [Obs.] Latimer.
ESPOUSEMENT
The act of espousing, or the state of being espoused.
ESPOUSER
One who espouses; one who embraces the cause of another ormakes it his own.
ESPRESSIVO
With expression.
ESPRINGAL
An engine of war used for throwing viretons, large stones, andother missiles; a springal.
ESPRIT
Spirit. Esprit de corps (, a French phrase much used by Englishwriters to denote the common spirit pervading the members of a bodyor association of persons. It implies sympathy, enthusiasm, devotion,and jealous regard for the honor of the body as a whole.
ESPY
To look or search narrowly; to look about; to watch; to takenotice; to spy.Stand by the way, and espy. Jer. xlviii. 19.
ESQUIMAU
Same as Eskimo.It is . . . an error to suppose that where an Esquimau can live, acivilized man can live also. McClintock.
ESQUIRE
Originally, a shield-bearer or armor-bearer, an attendant on aknight; in modern times, a title of dignity next in degree belowknight and above gentleman; also, a title of office and courtesy; --often shortened to squire.
ESQUISSE
The first sketch of a picture or model of a statue.
ESSAY
A composition treating of any particular subject; -- usuallyshorter and less methodical than a formal, finished treatise; as, anessay on the life and writings of Homer; an essay on fossils, or oncommerce.
ESSAYER
One who essays. Addison.
ESSAYIST
A writer of an essay, or of essays. B. Jonson.
ESSENCE
To perfume; to scent. "Essenced fops." Addison.
ESSENE
One of a sect among the Jews in the time of our Savior,remarkable for their strictness and abstinence.
ESSENISM
The doctrine or the practices of the Essenes. De Quincey.
ESSENTIAL
Necessary; indispensable; -- said of those tones whichconstitute a chord, in distinction from ornamental or passing tones.
ESSENTIALITY
The quality of being essential; the essential part. Jer.Taylor.
ESSENTIALLY
In an essential manner or degree; in an indispensable degree;really; as, essentially different.
ESSENTIALNESS
Essentiality. Ld. Digby.
ESSENTIATE
To form or constitute the essence or being of. [Obs.] Boyle.
ESSOIN
To excuse for nonappearance in court. "I 'll not essoin thee."Quarles.
ESSOINER
An attorney who sufficiently excuses the absence of another.
ESSONITE
Cinnamon stone, a variety of garnet. See Garnet.
ESSORANT
Standing, but with the wings spread, as if about to fly; --said of a bird borne as a charge on an escutcheon.
EST
East. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ESTABLISHED SUIT
A plain suit in which a player (or side) could, except fortrumping, take tricks with all his remaining cards.
ESTABLISHER
One who establishes.
ESTABLISHMENTARIAN
One who regards the Church primarily as an establishment formedby the State, and overlooks its intrinsic spiritual character.Shipley.
ESTACADE
A dike of piles in the sea, a river, etc., to check theapproach of an enemy.
ESTAMINET
A cafรฉ, or room in a cafรฉ, in which smoking is allowed.
ESTANCIA
A grazing; a country house. [Spanish America]
ESTATE
The great classes or orders of a community or state (as theclergy, the nobility, and the commonalty of England) or theirrepresentatives who administer the government; as, the estates of therealm (England), which are (1) the lords spiritual, (2) the lordstemporal, (3) the commons.
ESTEEM
To form an estimate; to have regard to the value; to consider.[Obs.]We ourselves esteem not of that obedience, or love, or gift, which isof force. Milton.
ESTEEMABLE
Worthy of esteem; estimable. [R.] "Esteemable qualities." Pope.
ESTEEMER
One who esteems; one who sets a high value on any thing.The proudest esteemer of his own parts. Locke.
ESTER
An ethereal salt, or compound ether, consisting of an organicradical united with the residue of any oxygen acid, organic orinorganic; thus the natural fats are esters of glycerin and the fattyacids, oleic, etc.
ESTHESIOMETER
Same as รsthesiometer.
ESTIFEROUS
Producing heat. [R.] Smart.
ESTIMABLE
A thing worthy of regard. [R.]One of the peculiar estimables of her country. Sir T. Browne.
ESTIMABLENESS
The quality of deserving esteem or regard.
ESTIMABLY
In an estimable manner.
ESTIMATE
A valuing or rating by the mind, without actually measuring,weighing, or the like; rough or approximate calculation; as, anestimate of the cost of a building, or of the quantity of water in apond.Weigh success in a moral balance, and our whole estimate is changed.J. C. Shairp.
ESTIMATOR
One who estimates or values; a valuer. Jer. Taylor.
ESTOILE
A six-pointed star whose rays are wavy, instead of straightlike those of a mullet. [Written also รฉtoile.] Estoile of eightpoints, a star which has four straight and four wavy rays.-- Estoile of four points. Same as Cross estoilรฉ, under Cross.
ESTOP
To impede or bar by estoppel.A party will be estopped by his admissions, where his intent is toinfluence another, or derive an advantage to himself. Abbott.
ESTOVERS
Necessaries or supples; an allowance to a person out of anestate or other thing for support; as of wood to a tenant for life,etc., of sustenance to a man confined for felony of his estate, oralimony to a woman divorced out of her husband's estate. Blackstone.Common of estovers. See under Common, n.
ESTRADE
A portion of the floor of a room raised above the generallevel, as a place for a bed or a throne; a platform; a dais.He [the teacher] himself should have his desk on a mounted estrade orplatform. J. G. Fitch.
ESTRANGEDNESS
State of being estranged; estrangement. Prynne.
ESTRANGEMENT
The act of estranging, or the state of being estranged;alienation.An estrangement from God. J. C. Shairp.A long estrangement from better things. South.
ESTRANGER
One who estranges.
ESTRANGLE
To strangle. [Obs.]
ESTRAPADE
The action of a horse, when, to get rid of his rider, he rears,plunges, and kicks furiously.
ESTRAY
To stray. [Obs.] Daniel.
ESTRE
The inward part of a building; the interior. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ESTREAT
A true copy, duplicate, or extract of an original writing orrecord, esp. of amercements or penalties set down in the rolls ofcourt to be levied by the bailiff, or other officer. Cowell. Estreatof a recognizance, the extracting or taking out a forfeitedrecognizance from among the other records of the court, for thepurpose of a prosecution in another court, or it may be in the samecourt. Burrill.
ESTREPE
To strip or lay bare, as land of wood, houses, etc.; to commitwaste.
ESTREPEMENT
A destructive kind of waste, committed by a tenant for life, inlands, woods, or houses. Cowell.
ESTRICH
The down of the ostrich. Brande & C.
ESTUANCE
Heat. [Obs.]
ESTUARINE
Pertaining to an estuary; estuary.
ESTUARY
Belonging to, or formed in, an estuary; as, estuary strata.Lyell.
ESTUATE
To boil up; to swell and rage; to be agitated. Bacon.
ESTUATION
The act of estuating; commotion, as of a fluid; agitation.The estuations of joys and fears. W. Montagu.
ESTUFA
An assembly room in dwelling of the Pueblo Indians. L. H.Morgan.
ESTURE
Commotion. [Obs.] Chapman.
ESURIENT
Inclined to eat; hungry; voracious. [R.] Bailey. "Poor, butesurient." Carlyle.
ESURINE
Causing hunger; eating; corroding. [Obs.] Wiseman.
ETAAC
The blue buck.
ETACISM
The pronunciation of the Greek รช (eta) like the Italian e long,that is like a in the English word ate. See Itacism.
ETACIST
One who favors etacism.
ETAGERE
A piece of furniture having a number of uninclosed shelves orstages, one above another, for receiving articles of elegance or use.Fairholt.
ETAMINE
A light textile fabric, like a fine bunting.
ETAPE
A public storehouse.
ETAT MAJOR
The staff of an army, including all officers above the rank ofcolonel, also, all adjutants, inspectors, quartermasters,commissaries, engineers, ordnance officers, paymasters, physicians,signal officers, judge advocates; also, the noncommissionedassistants of the above officers.
ETCH
A variant of Eddish. [Obs.] Mortimer.
ETCHER
One who etches.
ETEOSTIC
A kind of chronogram. [R.] B. Jonson.
ETERMINABLE
Interminable. [Obs.] Skelton.
ETERNALIST
One who holds the existence of matter to be from eternity. T.Burnet.
ETERNALIZE
To make eternal. Shelton.
ETERNALLY
In an eternal manner.That which is morally good or evil at any time or in any case, mustbe also eternally and unchangeably so. South.Where western gales eternally reside. Addison.
ETERNE
See Etern.
ETERNIFY
To make eternal. [Obs.]Fame . . . eternifies the name. Mir. for Mag.
ETERNIZATION
The act of eternizing; the act of rendering immortal or famous.
ETESIAN
Periodical; annual; -- applied to winds which annually blowfrom the north over the Mediterranean, esp. the eastern part, for anirregular period during July and August.
ETHAL
A white waxy solid, C16H33.OH; -- called also cetylic alcohol.See Cetylic alcohol, under Cetylic.
ETHANE
A gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H6, forming a constituent of ordinaryilluminating gas. It is the second member of the paraffin series, andits most important derivatives are common alcohol, aldehyde, ether,and acetic acid. Called also dimethyl.
ETHE
Easy. [Obs.] Spenser.
ETHEL
Noble. [Obs.]
ETHENE
Ethylene; olefiant gas.
ETHENIC
Pertaining to, derived from. or resembling, ethene or ethylene;as, ethenic ether.
ETHEOSTOMOID
Pertaining to, or like, the genus Etheostoma.-- n.
ETHER
A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed topervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and tobe the medium of transmission of light and heat; hence often calledluminiferous ether.
ETHEREAL
Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, ether; as, etherealsalts. Ethereal oil. (Chem.) See Essential oil, under Essential.-- Ethereal oil of wine (Chem.), a heavy, yellow, oily liquidconsisting essentially of etherin, etherol, and ethyl sulphate. It isthe oily residuum left after etherification. Called also heavy oil ofwine (distinguished from oil of wine, or oenanthic ether).-- Ethereal salt (Chem.), a salt of some organic radical as a base;an ester.
ETHEREALISM
Ethereality.
ETHEREALITY
The state of being ethereal; etherealness.Something of that ethereality of thought and manner which belonged toWordsworth's earlier lyrics. J. C. Shairp.
ETHEREALIZATION
An ethereal or spiritlike state. J. H. Stirling.
ETHEREALLY
In an ethereal manner.
ETHEREALNESS
Ethereality.
ETHEREOUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, either. Ethereous oil. SeeEthereal oil, under Ethereal.
ETHERIFICATION
The act or process of making ether; specifically, the processby which a large quantity of alcohol is transformed into ether by theagency of a small amount of sulphuric, or ethyl sulphuric, acid.
ETHERIFORM
Having the form of ether.
ETHERIN
A white, crystalline hydrocarbon, regarded as a polymericvariety of ethylene, obtained in heavy oil of wine, the residue leftafter making ether; -- formerly called also concrete oil of wine.
ETHEROL
An oily hydrocarbon regarded as a polymeric variety ofethylene, produced with etherin.
ETHICALLY
According to, in harmony with, moral principles or character.
ETHICIST
One who is versed in ethics, or has written on ethics.
ETHICS
The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn fromthis science; a particular system of principles and rules concertingduty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a singleclass of human actions; as, political or social ethics; medicalethics.The completeness and consistency of its morality is the peculiarpraise of the ethics which the Bible has taught. I. Taylor.
ETHIDE
Any compound of ethyl of a binary type; as, potassium ethide.
ETHIDENE
Ethylidene. [Obs.]
ETHINE
Acetylene.
ETHIONIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid so called.Ethionic acid (Chem.), a liquid derivative of ethylsulphuric andsulphuric (thionic) acids, obtained by the action of sulphur trioxideon absolute alcohol.
ETHIOPIC
The language of ancient Ethiopia; the language of the ancientAbyssinian empire (in Ethiopia), now used only in the Abyssinianchurch. It is of Semitic origin, and is also called Geez.
ETHIOPS
A black substance; -- formerly applied to various preparationsof a black or very dark color. [Written also รthiops.] [Obs.] Ethiopsmartial (Old Chem.), black oxide of iron.-- Ethiops mineral (Old Chem.), black sulphide of mercury, obtainedby triturating mercury with sulphur.-- Ethiops per se (Old Chem.), mercury in finely divided state,having the appearance of a dark powder, obtained by shaking it up orby exposure to the air.
ETHMOID
The ethmoid bone.
ETHMOTRUBINAL
See Turbinal.-- n.
ETHMOVOMERINE
Pertaining to the region of the vomer and the base of theethmoid in the skull. Ethmovomerine plate (Anat.), a cartilaginousplate beneath the front of the fetal brain which the ethmoid regionof the skull is developed.
ETHNARCH
The governor of a province or people. Lew Wallace.
ETHNARCHY
The dominion of an ethnarch; principality and rule. Wright.
ETHNIC
A heathen; a pagan. [Obs.]No better reported than impure ethnic and lay dogs. Milton.
ETHNICALLY
In an ethnical manner.
ETHNICISM
Heathenism; paganism; idolatry. [Obs.] "Taint of ethnicism." B.Jonson.
ETHNOGRAPHER
One who investigates ethnography.
ETHNOGRAPHICALLY
In an ethnographical manner.
ETHNOGRAPHY
That branch of knowledge which has for its subject thecharacteristics of the human family, developing the details withwhich ethnology as a comparative science deals; descriptiveethnology. See Ethnology.
ETHNOLOGICALLY
In an ethnological manner; by ethnological classification; as,one belonging ethnologically to an African race.
ETHNOLOGIST
One versed in ethnology; a student of ethnology.
ETHNOLOGY
The science which treats of the division of mankind into races,their origin, distribution, and relations, and the peculiaritieswhich characterize them.
ETHOLOGIST
One who studies or writes upon ethology.
ETHOPOETIC
Expressing character. [Obs.] Urquhart.
ETHOS
The character, sentiment, or disposition of a community orpeople, considered as a natural endowment; the spirit which actuatesmanners and customs; also, the characteristic tone or genius of aninstitution or social organization.
ETHULE
Ethyl. [Obs.]
ETHYL
A monatomic, hydrocarbon radical, C2H5 of the paraffin series,forming the essential radical of ethane, and of common alcohol andether. Ethyl aldehyde. (Chem.) See Aldehyde.
ETHYLAMINE
A colorless, mobile, inflammable liquid, C2H5.NH2, veryvolatile and with an ammoniacal odor. It is a strong base, and is aderivative of ammonia. Called also ethyl carbamine, and amido ethane.
ETHYLATE
A compound derived from ethyl alcohol by the replacement of thehydroxyl hydrogen, after the manner of a hydrate; an ethylalcoholate; as, potassium ethylate, C2H5.O.K.
ETHYLENE
A colorless, gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H4, forming an importantingredient of illuminating gas, and also obtained by the action ofconcentrated sulphuric acid in alcohol. It is an unsaturated compoundand combines directly with chlorine and bromine to form oily liquids(Dutch liquid), -- hence called olefiant gas. Called also ethene,elayl, and formerly, bicarbureted hydrogen. Ethylene series (Chem.),the series if unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is the type,and represented by the general formula CnH2n.
ETHYLIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, ethyl; as, ethylicalcohol.
ETHYLIDENE
An unsymmetrical, divalent, hydrocarbon radical, C2H4 metamericwith ethylene but written thus, CH3.CH to distinguish it from thesymmetrical ethylene, CH2.CH2. Its compounds are derived fromaldehyde. Formerly called also ethidene.
ETHYLIN
Any one of the several complex ethers of ethyl and glycerin.
ETHYLSULPHURIC
Pertaining to, or containing, ethyl and sulphuric acid.Ethylsulphuric acid (Chem.), an acid sulphate of ethyl, H.C2H5.SO4,produced as a thick liquid by the action of sulphiric acid onalcohol. It appears to be the active catalytic agent in the processof etherification.
ETIOLATE
To become pale through disease or absence of light.
ETIOLATION
Paleness produced by absence of light, or by disease.Dunglison.
ETIOLIN
A yellowish coloring matter found in plants grown in darkness,which is supposed to be an antecedent condition of chlorophyll.Encyc. Brit.
ETIOLOGICAL
Pertaining to, or inquiring into, causes; รฆtiological.
ETIOLOGY
The science of causes. Same as tiology.
ETIQUETTE
The forms required by good breeding, or prescribed byauthority, to be observed in social or official life; observance ofthe proprieties of rank and occasion; conventional decorum;ceremonial code of polite society.The pompous etiquette to the court of Louis the Fourteenth. Prescott.
ETNA
A kind of small, portable, cooking apparatus for which heat isfurnished by a spirit lamp.There should certainly be an etna for getting a hot cup of coffee ina hurry. V. Baker.
ETNEAN
Pertaining to Etna, a volcanic mountain in Sicily.
ETOILE
See Estoile.
ETRURIAN
Of or relating to ancient Etruria, in Italy. "Etrurian Shades."Milton, -- n.
ETRUSCAN
Of or relating to Etruria.-- n.
ETTER PIKE
The stingfish, or lesser weever (Tranchinus vipera).
ETTIN
A giant. [Obs.] Beau & Fl.
ETTLE
To earn. [Obs.] See Addle, to earn. Boucher.
ETUDE
A study; an exercise; a piece for practice of some specialpoint of technical execution.
ETUI
A case for one several small articles; esp., a box in whichscissors, tweezers, and other articles of toilet or of daily use arecarried.
ETWEE
See . Shenstone.
ETYM
See Etymon. H. F. Talbot.
ETYMIC
Relating to the etymon; as, an etymic word.
ETYMOLOGER
An etymologist.
ETYMOLOGICAL
Pertaining to etymology, or the derivation of words.-- Et`y*mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
ETYMOLOGICON
an etymological dictionary or manual.
ETYMOLOGIST
One who investigates the derivation of words.
ETYMOLOGIZE
To give the etymology of; to trace to the root or primitive, asa word. Camden
ETYMON
1. An original form; primitive word; root.
ETYPICAL
Diverging from, or lacking conformity to, a type.
EU
A prefix used frequently in composition, signifying well, good,advantageous; -- the opposite of dys-.
EUCAIRITE
A metallic mineral, a selenide of copper and silver; -- socalled by Berzelius on account of its being found soon after thediscovery of the metal selenium.
EUCALYN
An unfermentable sugar, obtained as an uncrystallizable sirupby the decomposition of melitose; also obtained from a Tasmanianeucalyptus, -- whence its name.
EUCALYPTOL
A volatile, terpenelike oil extracted from the eucalyptus, andconsisting largely of cymene.
EUCALYPTUS
A myrtaceous genus of trees, mostly Australian. Many of themgrow to an immense height, one or two species exceeding the heighteven of the California Sequoia.
EUCHARIS
A genus of South American amaryllidaceous plants with large andbeautiful white blossoms.
EUCHARIST
The sacrament of the Lord's Supper; the solemn act of ceremonyof commemorating the death of Christ, in the use of bread and wine,as the appointed emblems; the communion.-- See Sacrament.
EUCHITE
One who resolves religion into prayer. [Obs.] Gauden.
EUCHLORIC
Relating to, or consisting of, euchlorine; as, euchloric .Davy.
EUCHLORINE
A yellow or greenish yellow gas, first prepared by Davy,evolved from potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid. It is supposedto consist of chlorine tetroxide with some free chlorine.
EUCHOLOGUE
Euchology. [R.]
EUCHRE
A game at cards, that may be played by two, three, or fourpersons, the highest card (except when an extra card called the Jokeris used) being the knave of the same suit as the trump, and calledright bower, the lowest card used being the seven, or frequently, intwo-handed euchre, the nine spot. See Bower.
EUCHROIC
Having a fine color. Euchroic acid (Chem.), an organic, imideacid, obtained as a colorless crystalline substance, C12H4N2O8 byheating an ammonium salt of mellitic acid. By reduction it is changedto a dark blue substance (euchrone), -- hence its name.
EUCHROITE
A mineral occurring in transparent emerald green crystals. Itis hydrous arseniate of copper.
EUCHRONE
A substance obtained from euchroic acid. See Eychroic.
EUCHYMY
A good state of he blood and other fluids of the body.
EUCLASE
A brittle gem occurring in light green, transparent crystals,affording a brilliant clinodiagonal cleavage. It is a silicate ofalumina and glucina.
EUCLID
A Greek geometer of the 3d century
EUCLIDIAN
Related to Euclid, or to the geometry of Euclid. Euclidianspace (Geom.), the kind of space to which the axioms and definitionsof Euclid, relative to straight lines and parallel lines, apply; --called also flat space, and homaloidal space.
EUCOPEPODA
A group which includes the typical copepods and the lerneans.
EUCRASY
Such a due mixture of qualities in bodies as constitutes healthor soundness. Quincy.
EUCTICAL
Expecting a wish; supplicatory. [R.]Sacrifices . . . distinguished into expiatory, euctical, andeucharistical. Bp. Law.
EUDIALYTE
A mineral of a brownish red color and vitreous luster,consisting chiefly of the silicates of iron, zirconia, and lime.
EUDIOMETER
An instrument for the volumetric measurement of gases; -- sonamed because frequently used to determine the purity of the air.
EUDIOMETRY
The art or process of determining he constituents of a gaseousmixture by means of the eudiometer, or for ascertaining the purity ofthe air or the amount of oxygen in it.
EUDIPLEURA
The fundamental forms of organic life, that are composed of twoequal and symmetrical halves. Syd. Soc. Lex.
EUDOXIAN
A follower of Eudoxius, patriarch of Antioch and Constantinoplein the 4th century, and a celebrated defender of the doctrines ofArius.
EUGANOIDEI
A group which includes the bony ganoids, as the gar pikes.
EUGE
Applause. [Obs.] Hammond.
EUGENESIS
The quality or condition of having strong reproductive powers;generation with full fertility between different species or races,specif. between hybrids of the first generation.
EUGENIA
A genus of mytraceous plants, mostly of tropical countries, andincluding several aromatic trees and shrubs, among which are thetrees which produce allspice and cloves of commerce.
EUGENIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, cloves; as, eugenic acid.
EUGENICS
The science of improving stock, whether human or animal. F.Galton.
EUGENIN
A colorless, crystalline substance extracted from oil ofcloves; -- called also clove camphor.
EUGENOL
A colorless, aromatic, liquid hydrocarbon, C10H12O2 resemblingthe phenols, and hence also called eugenic acid. It is found in theoils of pimento and cloves.
EUGENY
Nobleness of birth. [Obs.]
EUGH
The yew. [Obs.] Dryden.
EUHARMONIC
Producing mathematically perfect harmony or concord; sweetly orperfectly harmonious.
EUHEMERISM
The theory, held by Euhemerus, that the gods of mythology werebut deified mortals, and their deeds only the amplification inimagination of human acts.
EUHEMERIST
One who advocates euhemerism.
EUHEMERISTIC
Of or pertaining to euhemerism.
EUHEMERIZE
To interpret (mythology) on the theory of euhemerism.
EUISOPODA
A group which includes the typical Isopoda.
EULACHON
The candlefish. [Written also oulachan, oolacan, and ulikon.]See Candlefish.
EULERIAN
Pertaining Euler, a German mathematician of the 18th century.Eulerian integrals, certain definite integrals whose properties werefirst investigated by Euler.
EULOGIST
One who eulogizes or praises; panegyrist; encomiast. Buckle.
EULOGIUM
A formal eulogy. Smollett.
EULOGIZE
To speak or write in commendation of (another); to extol inspeech or writing; to praise.
EULOGY
A speech or writing in commendation of the character orservices of a person; as, a fitting eulogy to worth.Eulogies turn into elegies. Spenser.
EULYTITE
a mineral, consisting chiefly of the silicate of bismuth, foundat Freiberg; -- called also culytine.
EUMENIDES
A euphemistic name for the Furies of Erinyes.
EUMOLPUS
A genus of small beetles, one species of which (E. viti) isvery injurious to the vines in the wine countries of Europe.
EUNOMIAN
A follower of Eunomius, bishop of Cyzicus (4th century A. D.),who held that Christ was not God but a created being, having a naturedifferent from that of the Father.-- a.
EUNOMY
Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government. [R.]Mitford.
EUNUCH
A male of the human species castrated; commonly, one of a classof such persons, in Oriental countries, having charge of the women'sapartments. Some of them, in former times, gained high official rank.
EUNUCHISM
The state of being eunuch. Bp. Hall.
EUONYMIN
A principle or mixture of principles derived from Euonymusatropurpureus, or spindle tree.
EUONYMUS
A genus of small European and American trees; the spindle tree.The bark is used as a cathartic.
EUORNITHES
The division of Aves which includes all the typical birds, orall living birds except the penguins and birds of ostrichlike form.
EUOSMITTE
A fossil resin, so called from its strong, peculiar, pleasantodor.
EUPATHY
Right feeling. [R.] Harris.
EUPATORIUM
A genus of perennial, composite herbs including hemp agrimony,boneset, throughwort, etc.
EUPATRID
One well born, or of noble birth.
EUPEPTIC
Of or pertaining to good digestion; easy of digestion; having agood digestion; as, eupeptic food; an eupeptic man.Wrapt in lazy eupeptic fat. Carlyle.
EUPHEMISM
A figure in which a harts or indelicate word or expression issoftened; a way of describing an offensive thing by an inoffensiveexpression; a mild name for something disagreeable.
EUPHEMIZE
To express by a euphemism, or in delicate language; to make useof euphemistic expressions.
EUPHONIAD
An instrument in which are combined the characteristic tones ofthe organ and various other instruments. [R.]
EUPHONICON
A kind of uptight piano.
EUPHONIOUS
Pleasing or sweet in sound; euphonic; smooth-sounding. Hallam.-- Eu*pho"ni*ous*ly, adv.
EUPHONISM
An agreeable combination of sounds; euphony.
EUPHONIUM
A bass instrument of the saxhorn family.
EUPHONIZE
To make euphonic. [R.]
EUPHONON
An instrument resembling the organ in tine and the uprightpiano in form. It is characterized by great strength and sweetness oftone.
EUPHONOUS
Euphonious. [R.]
EUPHONY
A pleasing or sweet sound; an easy, smooth enunciation ofsounds; a pronunciation of letters and syllables which is pleasing tothe ear.
EUPHORBIA
Spurge, or bastard spurge, a genus of plants of many species,mostly shrubby, herbaceous succulents, affording an acrid, milkyjuice. Some of them are armed with thorns. Most of them yieldpowerful emetic and cathartic products.
EUPHORBIUM
An inodorous exudation, usually in the form of yellow tears,produced chiefly by the African Euphorbia resinifrea. It was formerlyemployed medicinally, but was found so violent in its effects thatits use is nearly abandoned.
EUPHOTIDE
A rock occurring in the Alps, consisting of saussurite andsmaragdite; -- sometimes called gabbro.
EUPHRASY
The plant eyesight (euphrasia officionalis), formerly regardedas beneficial in disorders of the eyes.Then purged with euphrasy and rue The visual nerve, for he had muchto see. Milton.
EUPHROE
A block or long slat of wood, perforated for the passage of thecrowfoot, or cords by which an awning is held up. [Written alsouphroe and uvrou.] Knight.
EUPHUISM
An affectation of excessive elegance and refinement oflanguage; high-flown diction.
EUPHUIST
One who affects excessive refinement and elegance of language;-- applied esp. to a class of writers, in the age of Elizabeth, whoseproductions are marked by affected conceits and high-flown diction.
EUPHUISTIC
Belonging to the euphuists, or euphuism; affectedly refined.
EUPHUIZE
To affect excessive refinement in language; to be overnice inexpression.
EUPIONE
A limpid, oily liquid obtained by the destructive distillationof various vegetable and animal substances; -- specifically, an oilconsisting largely of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series.[Written also eupion.]
EUPITTONE
A yellow, crystalline substance, resembling aurin, and obtainedby the oxidation of pittacal; -- called also eupittonic acid.[Written also eupitton.]
EUPITTONIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, eupittone.
EUPLASTIC
Having the capacity of becoming organizable in a high degree,as the matter forming the false membranes which sometimes result fromacute inflammation in a healthy person. Dunglison.
EUPLECTELLA
A genus of elegant, glassy sponges, consisting of interwovensiliceous fibers, and growing in the form of a cornucopia; -- calledalso Venus's flower-basket.
EUPLEXOPTERA
An order of insects, including the earwig. The anterior wingsare short, in the form of elytra, while the posterior wings fold upbeneath them. See Earwig.
EUPNAEA
Normal breathing where arterialization of the blood is normal,in distinction from dyspnรฆa, in which the blood is insufficientlyarterialized. Foster.
EURASIAN
Of European and Asiatic descent; of or pertaining to bothEurope and Asia; as, the great Eurasian plain.
EURASIATIO
Of or pertaining to the continents of Europe and Asia combined.
EUREKA
The exclamation attributed to Archimedes, who is said to havecried out "Eureka! eureka!" (I have found it! I have found it!), uponsuddenly discovering a method of finding out how much the gold ofKing Hiero's crown had been alloyed. Hence, an expression of triumphconcerning a discovery.
EURHIPIDUROUS
Having a fanlike tail; belonging to the Eurhipidurรฆ, a divisionof Aves which includes all living birds.
EURIPIZE
To whirl hither and thither. [Obs.]
EURIPUS
A strait; a narrow tract of water, where the tide, or acurrent, flows and reflows with violence, as the ancient fright ofthis name between Eubรฆa and Bรฆotia. Hence, a flux and reflux. Burke.
EURITE
A compact feldspathic rock; felsite. See Felsite.
EURITIC
Of or pelating to eurite.
EUROCLYDON
A tempestuous northeast wind which blows in the Mediterranean.See Levanter.A tempestuous wind called Euroclydon. Acts xxvii. 14.
EUROPEAN
Of or pertaining to Europe, or to its inhabitants. On theEuropean plain, having rooms to let, and leaving it optional withguests whether they will take meals in the house; -- said of hotels.[U. S.]
EUROPEANIZE
To cause to become like the Europeans in manners or character;to habituate or accustom to European usages.A state of society . . . changed and Europenized. Lubbock.
EUROPIUM
A metallic element of the rare-earth group, discoveredspectroscopically by Demarcay in 1896. Symbol, Eu; at. wt., 152.0.
EURUS
The east wind.
EURYALE
A genus of water lilies, growing in India and China. The onlyspecies (E. ferox) is very prickly on the peduncles and calyx. Therootstocks and seeds are used as food.
EURYALIDA
A tribe of Ophiuroidea, including the genera Euryale,Astrophyton, etc. They generally have the arms branched. SeeAstrophyton.
EURYCEROUS
Having broad horns.
EURYPTEROID
Like, or pertaining to, the genus Euryperus.
EURYPTEROIDEA
An extinct order of Merostomata, of which the genus Eurypterusis the type. They are found only in Paleozoic rocks. [Written alsoEurypterida.]
EURYPTERUS
A genus of extinct Merostomata, found in Silurian rocks. Someof the species are more than three feet long.
EURYTHMY
Just or harmonious proportion or movement, as in thecomposition of a poem, an edifice, a painting, or a statue.
EUSEBIAN
A follower of Eusebius, bishop of Cรฆsarea, who was a friend andprotector of Arius.
EUSTYLE
See Intercolumnlation.
EUTAXY
Good or established order or arrangement. [R.] E. Waterhouse.
EUTECTIC
Of maximum fusibility; -- said of an alloy or mixture which hasthe lowest melting point which it is possible to obtain by thecombination of the given components.
EUTERPE
The Muse who presided over music.
EUTERPEAN
Of or pertaining to Euterpe or to music.
EUTEXIA
The principle or process of forming from given components theeutectic alloy, or alloy of maximum fusibility.
EUTHANASIA
An easy death; a mode of dying to be desired. "An euthanasia ofall thought." Hazlitt.The kindest wish of my friends is euthanasia. Arbuthnot.
EUTHANASY
Same as Euthanasia.
EUTHIOCHROIC
Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid so called. Euthiochroicacid (Chem.), a complex derivative of hydroquinone and sulphonic(thionic) acid.-- so called because it contains sulphur, and forms brilliantlycolored (yellow) salts.
EUTHYNEURA
A large division of gastropod molluske, including thePulmonifera and Opisthobranchiata.
EUTROPHY
Healthy nutrition; soundless as regards the nutritivefunctions.
EUTYCHIAN
A follower of Eutyches [5th century], who held that the divineand the human in the person of Christ were blended together as toconstitute but one nature; a monophysite; -- opposed to Nestorian.
EUTYCHIANISM
The doctrine of Eutyches and his followers.
EUXANTHIC
Having a yellow color; pertaining to, derived from, orresembling, euxanthin. Euxanthic acid (Chem.), a yellow, crystalline,organic acid, extracted from euxanthin.
EUXANTHIN
A yellow pigment imported from India and China. It has a strongodor, and is said to be obtained from the urine of herbivorousanimals when fed on the mango. It consists if a magnesium salt ofeuxanthic acid. Called also puri, purree, and Indian yellow.
EUXENITE
A brownish black mineral with a metallic luster, found inNorway. It contains niobium, titanium, yttrium, and uranium, withsome other metals.
EVACATE
To empty. [Obs.] Harvey.
EVACUANT
Emptying; evacuative; purgative; cathartic.-- n. (Med.)
EVACUATE
To let blood [Obs.] Burton.
EVACUATIVE
Serving of tending to evacuate; cathartic; purgative.
EVACUATOR
One who evacuates; a nullifier. "Evacuators of the law."Hammond.
EVACUATORY
A purgative.
EVADE
To get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity,subterfuge, address, or ingenuity; to elude; to escape from cleverly;as, to evade a blow, a pursuer, a punishment; to evade the force ofan argument.The heathen had a method, more truly their own, of evading theChristian miracles. Trench.
EVADIBLE
Capable of being evaded. [R.]
EVAGATION
A wandering about; excursion; a roving. [R.] Ray.
EVAGINATE
Protruded, or grown out, as an evagination; turned inside out;unsheathed; evaginated; as, an evaginate membrane.
EVAGINATION
The act of unsheathing.
EVAL
Relating to time or duration. [Obs.]
EVALUATE
To fix the value of; to rate; to appraise.
EVALUATION
Valuation; appraisement. J. S. Mill.
EVANESCE
To vanish away; to because dissipated and disappear, likevapor.I believe him to have evanesced or evaporated. De Quincey.
EVANESCENCE
The act or state of vanishing away; disappearance; as, theevanescence of vapor, of a dream, of earthly plants or hopes.Rambler.
EVANESCENTLY
; imperceptibly. Chalmers.
EVANGEL
Good news; announcement of glad tidings; especially, thegospel, or a gospel. Milton.Her funeral anthem is a glad evangel. Whittier.
EVANGELIAN
Rendering thanks for favors.
EVANGELIC
Belonging to, or contained in, the gospel; evangelical."Evangelic truth." J. Foster.
EVANGELICAL
One of evangelical principles.
EVANGELICALISM
Adherence to evangelical doctrines; evangelism. G. Eliot.
EVANGELICALLY
In an evangelical manner.
EVANGELICALNESS
State of being evangelical.
EVANGELICISM
Evangelical principles; evangelism.
EVANGELICITY
Evangelicism.
EVANGELISM
The preaching or promulgation of the gospel. Bacon.
EVANGELIST
A bringer of the glad tidings of Church and his doctrines.Specially: (a) A missionary preacher sent forth to prepare the wayfor a resident pastor; an itinerant missionary preacher. (b) A writerof one of the four Gospels (With the definite article); as, the fourevangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. (c) A traveling preacherwhose efforts are chiefly directed to arouse to immediate repentance.The Apostles, so far as they evangelized, might claim the tittlethough there were many evangelists who were not Apistles. Plumptre.
EVANGELISTARY
A selection of passages from the Gospels, as a lesson in divineservice. Porson.
EVANGELISTIC
Pertaining to the four evangelists; designed or fitted toevangelize; evangelical; as, evangelistic efforts.
EVANGELIZATION
The act of evangelizing; the state of being evangelized.The work of Christ's ministers is evangelization. Hobbes.
EVANGELIZE
To instruct in the gospel; to preach the gospel to; to convertto Christianity; as, to evangelize the world.His apostles whom he sends To evangelize the nations. Milton.
EVANGELY
Evangel. [Obs.]The sacred pledge of Christ's evangely. Spenser.
EVANGILE
Good tidings; evangel. [R.]Above all, the Servians . . . read, with much avidity, the evangileof their freedom. Londor.
EVANID
Liable to vanish or disappear; faint; weak; evanescent; as,evanid color. [Obs.]They are very transistory and evanid. Barrow.
EVANISH
To vanish.Or like the rainbow's lovely form, Evanishing amid the storm. Burns.
EVANISHMENT
A vanishing; disappearance. [R.] T. Jefferson.
EVAPORABLE
Capable of being converted into vapor, or dissipated byevaporation.
EVAPORATE
Dispersed in vapors. Thomson.
EVAPORATION
See Vaporization.
EVAPORATIVE
Pertaining to, or producing, evaporation; as, the evaporativeprocess.
EVAPORATOR
An apparatus for condensing vegetable juices, or for dryingfruit by heat.
EVAPOROMETER
An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of a fluidevaporated in a given time; an atmometer.
EVASIBLE
That may be evaded. [R.]
EVASION
The act of eluding or avoiding, particularly the pressure of anargument, accusation, charge, or interrogation; artful means ofeluding.Thou . . . by evasions thy crime uncoverest more. Milton.
EVASIVE
Tending to evade, or marked by evasion; elusive; shuffling;avoiding by artifice.Thus he, though conscious of the ethereal guest, Answered evasive ofthe sly request. Pope.Stammered out a few evasive phrases. Macaulay.-- E*va"sive*ly , adv.-- E*va"sive*ness, n.
EVECTICS
The branch of medical science which teaches the method ofacquiring a good habit of body. [Obs.]
EVEN
Evening. See Eve, n. 1. [Poetic.] Shak.
EVENE
To happen. [Obs.] Hewyt.
EVENFALL
Beginning of evening. "At the quiet evenfall." Tennyson.
EVENHAND
Equality. [Obs.] Bacon.
EVENHANDED
Fair or impartial; unbiased. "Evenhanded justice." Shak.-- E"ven*hand`ed*ly, adv.-- E"ven*hand`ed*ness, n.
EVENLY
With an even, level, or smooth surface; without roughness,elevations, or depression; uniformly; equally; comfortably;impartially; serenely.
EVENMINDED
Having equanimity.
EVENNESS
The state of being ven, level, or disturbed; smoothness;horizontal position; uniformity; impartiality; calmness; equanimity;appropriate place or level; as, evenness of surface, of a fluid atrest, of motion, of dealings, of temper, of condition.It had need be something extraordinary, that must warrant an ordinaryperson to rise higher than his own evenness. Jer. Taylor.
EVENSONG
A song for the evening; the evening service or form of worship(in the Church of England including vespers and compline); also, thetime of evensong. Wyclif. Milton.
EVENT
To break forth. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
EVENTERATE
To rip open; todisembowel. [Obs.] Sir. T. Brown.
EVENTFUL
Full of, or rich in, events or incidents; as, an eventfuljourney; an eventful period of history; an eventful period of life.
EVENTIDE
The time of evening; evening. [Poetic.] Spenser.
EVENTILATION
The act of eventilating; discussion. [Obs.] Bp. Berkely.
EVENTLESS
Without events; tame; monotomous; marked by nothing unusual;uneventful.
EVENTOGNATHI
An order of fishes including a vast number of freshwaterspecies such as the carp, loach, chub, etc.
EVENTUAL
Dependent on events; contingent. Marshall.
EVENTUALITY
Disposition to take cognizance of events.
EVENTUALLY
In an eventual manner; finally; ultimately.
EVENTUATE
To come out finally or in conclusion; to result; to come topass.
EVENTUATION
The act of eventuating or happening as a result; the outcome.R. W. Hamilton.
EVERDURING
Everlasting. Shak.
EVERGLADE
A swamp or low tract of land inundated with water andinterspersed with hummocks, or small islands, and patches of highgrass; as, the everglades of Florida. [U. S.]
EVERGREEN
Remaining unwithered through the winter, or retainingunwithered leaves until the leaves of the next year are expanded, aspines cedars, hemlocks, and the like.
EVERGREEN STATE
Washington; -- a nickname alluding to the abundance ofevergreen trees.
EVERLASTING
A plant whose flowers may be dried without losing their form orcolor, as the pearly everlasting (Anaphalis margaritacea), theimmortelle of the French, the cudweeds, etc.
EVERLASTINGLY
In an everlasting manner.
EVERLASTINGNESS
The state of being everlasting; endless duration; indefiniteduration.
EVERMORE
During eternity; always; forever; for an indefinite period; atall times; -- often used substantively with for.Seek the Lord . . . Seek his face evermore. Ps. cv. 4.And, behold, I am alive for evermore. Rev. i. 18.Which flow from the presence of God for evermore. Tillotson.I evermore did love you, Hermia. Shak.
EVERNIC
Pertaining to Evernia, a genus of lichens; as, evernic acid.
EVERSE
To overthrow or subvert. [Obs.] Glanvill.
EVERSIVE
Tending to evert or overthrow; subversive; with of.A maxim eversive . . . of all justice and morality. Geddes.
EVERYBODY
Every person.
EVERYDAY
Used or fit for every day; common; usual; as, an everyday suitor clothes.The mechanical drudgery of his everyday employment. Sir. J. Herchel.
EVERYONE
Everybody; -- commonly separated, every one.
EVERYTHING
Whatever pertains to the subject under consideration; allthings.More wise, more learned, more just, more everything. Pope.
EVERYWHEN
At any or all times; every instant. [R.] "Eternal law issilently present everywhere and everywhen." Carlyle.
EVERYWHERE
In every place; in all places; hence, in every part; throughly;altogether.
EVERYWHERENESS
Ubiquity; omnipresence. [R.] Grew.
EVESDROP
See Eavesdrop.
EVESDROPPER
See Eavesdropper.
EVESTIGATE
To investigate. [Obs.] Bailey.
EVET
The common newt or eft. In America often applied to severalspecies of aquatic salamanders. [Written also evat.]
EVIBRATE
To vibrate. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EVICT
To dispossess by a judicial process; to dispossess by paramountright or claim of such right; to eject; to oust.The law of England would speedily evict them out of their possession.Sir. J. Davies.
EVIDENCE
That which is legally submitted to competent tribunal, as ameans of ascertaining the truth of any alleged matter of fact underinvestigation before it; means of making proof; -- the latter,strictly speaking, not being synonymous with evidence, but rather theeffect of it. Greenleaf. Circumstantial evidence, Conclusiveevidence, etc. See under Circumstantial, Conclusive, etc.-- Crown's, King's, or Queen's evidence, evidence for the crown.[Eng.] -- State's evidence, evidence for the government or thepeople. [U. S. ] -- To turn King's, Queen's or State's evidence, toconfess a crime and give evidence against one's accomplices.
EVIDENCER
One whi gives evidence.
EVIDENT
Clear to the vision; especially, clear to the understanding,and satisfactory to the judgment; as, the figure or color of a bodyis evident to the senses; the guilt of an offender can not always bemade evident.Your honor and your goodness is so evident. Shak.And in our faces evident the sings Of foul concupiscence. Milton.
EVIDENTIAL
Relating to, or affording, evidence; indicative; especially,relating to the evidences of Christianity. Bp. Fleetwood. "Evidentialtracks." Earle..-- Ev`i*den"tial*ly, adv.
EVIDENTIARY
Furnishing evidence; asserting; proving; evidential.When a fact is supposed, although incorrectly, to be evidentiary of,a mark of, some other fact. J. S. Mill.
EVIDENTLY
In an evident manner; clearly; plainly.Before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth. Gal.iii. 1.He has evidently in the prime of youth. W. Irving.
EVIDENTNESS
State of being evident.
EVIGILATION
A waking up or awakening. [Obs.]
EVIL
In an evil manner; not well; ill; badly; unhappily;injuriously; unkindly. Shak.It went evil with his house. 1 Chron. vii. 23.The Egyptians evil entreated us, and affected us. Deut. xxvi. 6.
EVIL EYE
. See Evil eye under Evil, a.
EVIL-EYED
Possessed of the supposed evil eye; also, looking with envy,jealousy, or bad design; malicious. Shak.
EVIL-FAVORED
Having a bad countenance or appearance; ill-favored; blemished;deformed. Bacon.-- E"vil-fa`vored*ness, n. Deut. xvi. 1.
EVIL-MINDED
Having evil dispositions or intentions; disposed to mischief orsin; malicious; malignant; wicked.-- E"vil-mind`ed*ness, n.
EVILLY
In an evil manner; not well; ill. [Obs.] "Good deeds evillybestowed." Shak.
EVILNESS
The condition or quality of being evil; badness; viciousness;malignity; vileness; as, evilness of heart; the evilness of sin.
EVINCEMENT
The act of evincing or proving, or the state of being evinced.
EVINCIBLE
Capable of being proved or clearly brought to light;demonstrable. Sir. M. Hale. --E*vin"ci*bly, adv.
EVINCIVE
Tending to prove; having the power to demonstrate;demonstrative; indicative.
EVIRATE
To emasculate; to dispossess of manhood. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
EVIRATION
Castration. [Obs.]
EVISCERATE
To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; to gut.
EVISCERATION
A disemboweling.
EVITABLE
A voidable. [R.] Hooker.
EVITATE
To shun; to avoid. [Obs.] Shak.
EVITATION
A shunning; avoidance. [Obs.] Bacon.
EVITE
To shun. [Obs.] Dryton.
EVITERNAL
Eternal; everlasting. [Obs.] -- Ev`i*ter"nal*ly, adv. Bp. Hall.
EVITERNITY
Eternity. [Obs.]
EVOCATE
To call out or forth; to summon; to evoke. [R.] Stackhouse.
EVOCATION
The act of calling out or forth. Sir. T. Browne.The evocation of that better spirit. M. Arnold.
EVOCATIVE
Calling forth; serving to evoke; developing.Evocative power over all that is eloquent and expressive in thebetter soul of man. W. Pater.
EVOCATOR
One who calls forth. [R.]
EVOKE
Apt to fly away. [Obs. or R.] Blount.
EVOLATION
A flying out or up. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
EVOLUTE
A curve from which another curve, called the involute orevolvent, is described by the end of a thread gradually wound uponthe former, or unwound from it. See Involute. It is the locus of thecenters of all the circles which are osculatory to the given curve orevolvent.
EVOLUTILITY
The faculty possessed by all substances capable of self-nourishment of manifesting the nutritive acts by changes of form, ofvolume, or of structure. Syd. Soc. Lex.
EVOLUTION
The formation of an involute by unwrapping a thread from acurve as an evolute. Hutton.
EVOLUTIONAL
Relating to evolution. "Evolutional changes." H. Spenser.
EVOLUTIONARY
Relating to evolution; as, evolutionary discussions.
EVOLUTIONISM
The theory of, or belief in, evolution. See Evolution, 6 and 7.
EVOLVE
To become open, disclosed, or developed; to pass through aprocess of evolution. Prior.
EVOLVEMENT
The act of evolving, or the state of being evolved; evolution.
EVOLVENT
The involute of a curve. See Involute, and Evolute.
EVOMIT
To vomit. [Obs.]
EVOMITION
The act of vomiting. [Obs.] Swift.
EVULGATE
To publish abroad. [Obs.]
EVULGATION
A divulging. [Obs.]
EVULSION
The act of plucking out; a rooting out.
EW
A yew. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EWE
The female of the sheep, and of sheeplike animals.
EWE-NECKED
Having a neck like a ewe; -- said of horses in which the archof the neck is deficent, being somewhat hollowed out. Youwatt.
EWER
A kind of widemouthed pitcher or jug; esp., one used to holdwater for the toilet.Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands. Shak.
EWT
The newt.
EX LIBRIS
An inscription, label, or the like, in a book indicating itsownership; esp., a bookplate.
EX OFFICIO
From office; by virtue, or as a consequence, of an office;officially.
EX PARTE
Upon or from one side only; one-sided; partial; as, an ex partestatement. Ex parte application, one made without notice oropportunity to oppose.-- Ex parte council, one that assembles at the request of only oneof the parties in dispute.-- Ex parte hearing or evidence (Law), that which is had or taken byone side or party in the absence of the other. Hearings before grandjuries, and affidavits, are ex parte. Wharton's Law Dict. Burrill.
EX-
. A prefix from the latin preposition, ex, akin to Gr. 'ex or'ek signifying out of, out, proceeding from. Hence, in composition,it signifies out of, as, in exhale, exclude; off, from, or out. as inexscind; beyond, as, in excess, exceed, excel; and sometimes has aprivative sense of without, as in exalbuminuos, exsanguinous. In somewords, it intensifies the meaning; in others, it has little affect onthe signification. It becomes ef- before f, as in effuse. The form e-occurs instead of ex- before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, and v, as inebullient, emanate, enormous, etc. In words from the French it oftenappears as es-, sometimes as s- or รฉ-; as, escape, scape, รฉlite. Ex-,prefixed to names implying office, station, condition, denotes thatthe person formerly held the office, or is out of the office orcondition now; as, ex-president, ex-governor, ex-mayor, ex-convict.The Greek form 'ex becomes ex in English, as in exarch; 'ek becomesec, as in eccentric.
EX-OFFICIAL
Proceeding from office or authority.
EX-VOTO
An offering to a church in fulfillment of a vow.
EXACERBATE
To render more violent or bitter; to irriate; to exasperate; toimbitter, as passions or disease. Broughman.
EXACERBATION
A periodical increase of violence in a disease, as in remittentor continious fever; an increased energy of diseased and painfulaction.
EXACERBESCENCE
Increase of irritation or violence, particularly the increaseof a fever or disease.
EXACERVATION
The act of heaping up. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXACINATE
To remove the kernel form.
EXACINATION
Removal of the kernel.
EXACT
To demand or require authoritatively or peremptorily, as aright; to enforce the payment of, or a yielding of; to compel toyield or to furnish; hence, to wrest, as a fee or reward when none isdue; -- followed by from or of before the one subjected to exaction;as, to exact tribute, fees, obedience, etc., from or of some one.He said into them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you.Luke. iii. 13.Years of servise past From grateful souls exact reward at lastDryden.My designs Exact me in another place. Massinger.
EXACTER
An exactor. [R.]
EXACTING
Oppressive or unreasonably severe in making demands orrequiring the exact fulfillment of obligations; harsh; severe. "Atemper so exacting." T. Arnold -- Ex*act"ing*ly, adv.-- Ex*act"ing*ness, n.
EXACTITUDE
The quality of being exact; exactness.
EXACTLY
In an exact manner; precisely according to a rule, standard, orfact; accurately; strictly; correctly; nicely. "Exactly wrought."Shak.His enemies were pleased, for he had acted exactly as their interestsrequired. Bancroft.
EXACTOR
One who exacts or demands by authority or right; hence, anextortioner; also, one unreasonably severe in injunctions or demands.Jer. Taylor.
EXACTRESS
A woman who is an exactor. [R.] B. Jonson.
EXACUATE
To whet or sharpen. [Obs.] B. Jonson.-- Ex*ac`u*a"tion, n. [Obs.]
EXAERESIS
In old writers, the operations concerned in the removal ofparts of the body.
EXAGGERATED
Enlarged beyond bounds or the truth.-- Ex*ag"ger*a`ted*ly, adv.
EXAGGERATING
That exaggerates; enlarging beyond bounds.-- Ex*ag"ger*a`ting*ly, adv.
EXAGGERATION
A representation of things beyond natural life, in expression,beauty, power, vigor.
EXAGGERATIVE
Tending to exaggerate; involving exaggeration. "Exaggerativelanguage." Geddes. "Exaggerative pictures." W. J. Linton.-- Ex*ag"ger*a*tive*ly, adv. Carlyle.
EXAGGERATOR
One who exaggerates; one addicted to exaggeration. L. Horner.
EXAGGERATORY
Containing, or tending to, exaggeration; exaggerative. Johnson.
EXAGITATION
Agitation. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXALBUMINOUS
Having no albumen about the embryo; -- said of certain seeds.
EXALT
To render pure or refined; to intensify or concentrate; as, toexalt the juices of bodies.With chemic art exalts the mineral powers. Pope.
EXALTATE
Exercising its highest influence; -- said of a planet. [Obs.]Chaucer.
EXALTATION
The refinement or subtilization of a body, or the increasing ofits virtue or principal property.
EXALTED
Raised to lofty height; elevated; extolled; refined; dignified;sublime.Wiser far than Solomon, Of more exalted mind. Milton.Time never fails to bring every exalted reputation to a strictscrutiny. Ames.-- Ex*alt"ed*ly, adv.-- Ex*alt"ed*ness, n. "The exaltedness of some minds." T. Gray.
EXALTER
One who exalts or raises to dignity.
EXALTMENT
Exaltation. [Obs.] Barrow.
EXAMEN
Examination; inquiry. [R.] "A critical examen of the twopieces." Cowper.
EXAMETRON
An hexameter. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EXAMINABLE
Capable of being examined or inquired into. Bacon.
EXAMINATE
A person subjected to examination. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXAMINATOR
An examiner. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
EXAMINEE
A person examined.
EXAMINER
One who examines, tries, or inspects; one who interrogates; anofficer or person charged with the duty of making an examination; as,an examiner of students for a degree; an examiner in chancery, in thepatent office, etc.
EXAMINERSHIP
The office or rank of an examiner.
EXAMINING
Having power to examine; appointed to examine; as, an examiningcommittee.
EXAMPLARY
Serving for example or pattern; exemplary. [Obs.] Hooker.
EXAMPLE
To set an example for; to give a precedent for; to exemplify;to give an instance of; to instance. [Obs.] "I may example mydigression by some mighty precedent." Shak.Burke devoted himself to this duty with a fervid assiduity that hasnot often been exampled, and has never been surpassed. J. Morley.
EXAMPLELESS
Without or above example. [R.]
EXAMPLER
A pattern; an exemplar. [Obs.]
EXAMPLESS
Exampleless. [Wrongly formed.] B. Jonson.
EXANGUIOUS
Bloodless. [Obs.] See Exsanguious. Sir T. Browne.
EXANGULOUS
Having no corners; without angles. [R.]
EXANIMATE
To deprive of animation or of life. [Obs.]
EXANIMATION
Deprivation of life or of spirits. [R.] Bailey.
EXANIMOUS
Lifeless; dead. [Obs.] Johnson.
EXANNULATE
Having the sporangium destitute of a ring; -- said of certaingenera of ferns.
EXANTHEM
Same as Exanthema.
EXANTHEMA
An efflorescence or discoloration of the skin; an eruption orbreaking out, as in measles, smallpox, scarlatina, and the likediseases; -- sometimes limited to eruptions attended with fever.Dunglison.
EXANTHESIS
An eruption of the skin; cutaneous efflorescence.
EXANTLATE
To exhaust or wear out. [Obs.] "Seeds . . . wearied orexantlated." Boyle.
EXANTLATION
Act of drawing out ; exhaustion. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXARATE
To plow up; also, to engrave; to write. [Obs.] Blount.
EXARATION
Act of plowing; also, act of writing. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXARCH
A viceroy; in Ravenna, the title of the viceroys of theByzantine emperors; in the Eastern Church, the superior over severalmonasteries; in the modern Greek Church, a deputy of the patriarch ,who visits the clergy, investigates ecclesiastical cases, etc.
EXARCHATE
The office or the province of an exarch. Jer. Taylor.
EXARILLATE
Having no aril; -- said of certain seeds, or of the plantsproducing them.
EXARTICULATE
Having but one joint; -- said of certain insects.
EXARTICULATION
Luxation; the dislocation of a joint. Bailey.
EXASPERATE
Exasperated; imbittered. [Obs.] Shak.Like swallows which the exasperate dying year Sets spinning. Mrs.Browning.
EXASPERATER
One who exasperates or inflames anger, enmity, or violence.
EXASPIDEAN
Having the anterior scute
EXAUCTORATE
See Exauthorate. [Obs.]
EXAUCTORATION
See Exauthoration.
EXAUGURATE
To annul the consecration of; to secularize; to unhellow.[Obs.] Holland.
EXAUGURATION
The act of exaugurating; desecration. [Obs.]
EXAUTHORATE
To deprive of authority or office; to depose; to discharge.[Obs.]Exauthorated for their unworthiness. Jer. Taylor.
EXAUTHORATION
Deprivation of authority or dignity; degration. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
EXAUTHORIZE
To deprive of uthority. [Obs.] Selden.
EXCALCEATE
To deprive of shoes. [Obs.] Chambers.
EXCALCEATION
The act of depriving or divesting of shoes. [Obs.] Chambers.
EXCALFACTION
A heating or warming; calefaction. [Obs.] Blount.
EXCALFACTIVE
Serving to heat; warming. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
EXCALFACTORY
Heating; warming. [Obs.] Holland.
EXCALIBUR
The name of King Arthur's mythical sword. [Written alsoExcalibar, Excalibor, Escalibar, and Caliburn.] Tennyson.
EXCANDESCENT
White or glowing with heat. [R.] Ure.
EXCANTATION
Disenchantment by a countercharm. [Obs.] Gayton.
EXCARNATE
To deprive or clear of flesh. Grew.
EXCARNATION
The act of depriving or divesting of flesh; excarnification; --opposed to incarnation.
EXCARNIFICATE
To clear of flesh; to excarnate. Dr. H. More.
EXCARNIFICATION
The act of excarnificating or of depriving of flesh;excarnation. Johnson.
EXCAVATE
To dig out and remove, as earth.The material excavated was usually sand. E. L. Corthell.Excavating pump, a kind of dredging apparatus for excavating underwater, in which silt and loose material mixed with water are drawn upby a pump. Knight.
EXCAVATOR
One who, or that which, excavates or hollows out; a machine, asa dredging machine, or a tool, for excavating.
EXCAVE
To excavate. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EXCECATE
To blind. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EXCECATION
The act of making blind. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.
EXCEDENT
Excess. [R.]
EXCEED
To go beyond; to proceed beyond the given or supposed limit ormeasure of; to outgo; to surpass; -- used both in a good and a badsense; as, one man exceeds another in bulk, stature, weight, power,skill, etc. ; one offender exceeds another in villainy; his rankexceeds yours.Name the time, but let it not Exceed three days. Shak.Observes how much a chintz exceeds mohair. Pope.
EXCEEDABLE
Capable of exceeding or surpassing. [Obs.] Sherwood.
EXCEEDER
One who exceeds. Bp. Montagu.
EXCEEDING
More than usual; extraordinary; more than sufficient;measureless. "The exceeding riches of his grace." Eph. ii. 7.-- Ex*ceed"ing*ness, n. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
EXCEEDINGLY
To a very great degree; beyond what is usual; surpassingly. Itsignifies more than very.
EXCEL
To surpass others in good qualities, laudable actions, oracquirements; to be distinguished by superiority; as, to excel inmathematics, or classics.Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Gen. xlix. 4.Then peers grew proud in horsemanship t' excel. Pope.
EXCELLENT
Excellently; eminently; exceedingly. [Obs.] "This comes offwell and excellent." Shak.
EXCELSIOR
More lofty; still higher; ever upward.
EXCENTRAL
Out of the center.
EXCENTRICITY
. (Math.) Same as Eccentricity.
EXCEPT
To take exception; to object; -- usually followed by to,sometimes by against; as, to except to a witness or his testimony.Except thou wilt except against my love. Shak.
EXCEPTANT
Making exception.
EXCEPTING
, but properly a participle. With rejection or exception of;excluding; except. "Excepting your worship's presence." Shak.No one was ever yet made utterly miserable, excepting by himself.Lubbock.
EXCEPTION
An objection, oral or written, taken, in the course of anaction, as to bail or security; or as to the decision of a judge, inthe course of a trail, or in his charge to a jury; or as to lapse oftime, or scandal, impertinence, or insufficiency in a pleading; also,as in conveyancing, a clause by which the grantor excepts somethingbefore granted. Burrill.
EXCEPTIONABLE
Liable to exception or objection; objectionable.-- Ex*cep"tion*a*ble*ness, n.This passage I look upon to be the most exceptionable in the wholepoem. Addison.
EXCEPTIONAL
Forming an exception; not ordinary; uncommon; rare; hence,better than the average; superior. Lyell.This particular spot had exceptional advantages. Jowett (Th. )-- Ex*cep"tion*al*ly(#), adv.
EXCEPTIONER
One who takes exceptions or makes objections. [Obs.] Milton.
EXCEPTIONLESS
Without exception.A universal, . . . exceptionless disqualification. Bancroft.
EXCEPTIOUS
Disposed or apt to take exceptions, or to object; captious.[Obs.]At least effectually silence the doubtful and exceptious. South.-- Ex*cep"tious*ness, n. [Obs.] Barrow.
EXCEPTIVE
That excepts; including an exception; as, an exceptiveproposition. I. Watts.A particular and exceptive law. Milton.
EXCEPTLESS
Not exceptional; usual. [Obs.]My general and exceptless rashness. Shak.
EXCEPTOR
One who takes exceptions. T. Burnet.
EXCEREBRATION
The act of removing or beating out the brains.
EXCEREBROSE
Brainless. [R.]
EXCERN
To excrete; to throw off through the pores; as, fluids areexcerned in perspiration. [R.] Bacon.
EXCERNENT
Connected with, or pertaining to, excretion.
EXCERP
To pick out. [Obs.] Hales.
EXCERPT
To select; to extract; to cite; to quote.Out of which we have excerpted the following particulars. Fuller.
EXCERPTIVE
That excerpts, selects, or chooses. D. L. Mackenzie.
EXCERPTOR
One who makes excerpts; a picker; a culler.
EXCESSIVE
Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; overmuch.Excessive grief [is] the enemy to the living. Shak.
EXCHANGE
The process of setting accounts or debts between partiesresiding at a distance from each other, without the intervention ofmoney, by exchanging orders or drafts, called bills of exchange.These may be drawn in one country and payable in another, in whichcase they are called foreign bills; or they may be drawn and madepayable in the same country, in which case they are called inlandbills. The term bill of exchange is often abbreviated into exchange;as, to buy or sell exchange.
EXCHANGE EDITOR
An editor who inspects, and culls from, periodicals, orexchanges, for his own publication.
EXCHANGEABILITY
The quality or state of being exchangeable.The law ought not be contravened by an express article admitting theexchangeability of such persons. Washington.
EXCHANGEABLY
By way of exchange.
EXCHANGER
One who exchanges; one who practices exchange. Matt.
EXCHEAT
See Escheat. [Obs.] Spenser.
EXCHEATOR
See Escheator. [Obs.]
EXCHEQUER
To institute a process against (any one) in the Court ofExchequer.
EXCIDE
To cut off. [R.]
EXCIPIENT
Taking an exception.
EXCISABLE
Liable or subject to excise; as, tobacco in an excisablecommodity.
EXCISE
To cut out or off; to separate and remove; as, to excise atumor.
EXCISEMAN
An officer who inspects and rates articles liable to exciseduty. Macaulay.
EXCISION
The act of cutting off from the church; excommunication.
EXCITABILITY
The property manifested by living organisms, and the elementsand tissues of which they are constituted, of responding to theaction of stimulants; irritability; as, nervous excitability.
EXCITABLE
Capable of being excited, or roused into action; susceptible ofexcitement; easily stirred up, or stimulated.
EXCITANT
Tending to excite; exciting.
EXCITATE
To excite. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXCITATION
The act of producing excitement (stimulation); also, theexcitement produced.
EXCITATIVE
Having power to excite; tending or serving to excite;excitatory. Barrow.
EXCITATOR
A kind of discarder.
EXCITATORY
Tending to excite; containing excitement; excitative.
EXCITE
To call forth or increase the vital activity of an organism, orany of its parts.
EXCITEFUL
Full of exciting qualities; as, an exciteful story; excitefulplayers. Chapman.
EXCITEMENT
A state of aroused or increased vital activity in an organism,or any of its organs or tissues.
EXCITER
One who, or that which, excites.Hope is the grand exciter of industry. Dr. H. More.
EXCITING
Calling or rousing into action; producing excitement; as,exciting events; an exciting story.-- Ex*cit"ing*ly, adv. Exciting causes (Med.), those whichimmediately produce disease, or those which excite the action ofpredisposing causes.
EXCITIVE
Serving or tending to excite; excitative. [R.] Bamfield.
EXCITO-MOTION
Motion excited by reflex nerves. See Excito-motory.
EXCITO-MOTOR
Excitomotory; as, excito-motor power or causes.
EXCITO-MOTORY
Exciting motion; -- said of that portion of the nervous systemconcerned in reflex action, by which impressions are transmitted to anerve center and then reflected back so as to produce muscularcontraction without sensation or volition.
EXCITO-NUTRIENT
Exciting nutrition; said of the reflex influence by which thenutritional processes are either excited or modified.
EXCITO-SECRETORY
Exciting secretion; -- said of the influence exerted by reflexaction on the function of secretion, by which the various glands areexcited to action.
EXCLAIM
To cry out from earnestness or passion; to utter withvehemence; to call out or declare loudly; to protest vehemently; tovociferate; to shout; as, to exclaim against oppression with wonderor astonishment; "The field is won!" he exclaimed.
EXCLAIMER
One who exclaims.
EXCLAMATION
A word expressing outcry; an interjection; a word expressingpassion, as wonder, fear, or grief.
EXCLAMATIVE
Exclamatory. Earle.-- Ex*clam"a*tive*ly, adv.
EXCLAMATORY
Containing, expressing, or using exclamation; as, anexclamatory phrase or speaker. South.-- Ex*clam"a*to*ti*ly, adv.
EXCLAVE
A portion of a country which is separated from the main partand surrounded by politically alien territory. [Recent.]
EXCLUSION
The act of expelling or ejecting a fetus or an egg from thewomb.
EXCLUSIONARY
Tending to exclude; causing exclusion; exclusive.
EXCLUSIONISM
The character, manner, or principles of an exclusionist.
EXCLUSIONIST
One who would exclude another from some right or privilege;esp., one of the anti-popish politicians of the time of Charles
EXCLUSIVE
One of a coterie who exclude others; one who from real ofaffected fastidiousness limits his acquaintance to a select few.
EXCLUSIVENESS
Quality of being exclusive.
EXCLUSIVISM
The act or practice of excluding being exclusive;exclusiveness.
EXCLUSIVIST
One who favor or practices any from of exclusiveness orexclusivism.The field of Greek mythology . . . the favorite sporting ground ofthe exclusivists of the solar theory. Gladstone.
EXCLUSORY
Able to exclude; excluding; serving to exclude.
EXCOCT
To boil out; to produce by boiling. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXCOCTION
The act of excocting or boiling out. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXCOGITATE
To think out; to find out or discover by thinking; to devise;to contrive. "Excogitate strange arts." Stirling.This evidence . . . thus excogitated out of the general theory.Whewell.
EXCOGITATION
The act of excogitating; a devising in the thoughts; invention;contrivance.
EXCOMMUNE
To exclude from participation in; to excommunicate. [Obs.]Poets . . . were excommuned Plato's common wealth Gayton.
EXCOMMUNICABLE
Liable or deserving to be excommunicated; makingexcommunication possible or proper. "Persons excommunicable ." Bp.Hall.What offenses are excommunicable Kenle.
EXCOMMUNICANT
One who has been excommunicated.
EXCOMMUNICATE
Excommunicated; interdicted from the rites of the church.-- n.
EXCOMMUNICATION
The act of communicating or ejecting; esp., an ecclesiasticalcensure whereby the person against whom it is pronounced is, for thetime, cast out of the communication of the church; exclusion fromfellowship in things spiritual.
EXCOMMUNICATOR
One who excommunicates.
EXCOMMUNION
. A shutting out from communion; excommunication. [Obs.]Excommunication is the utmost of ecclesiastical judicature. Milton.
EXCORIABLE
. Capable of being excoriated.The scaly covering of fishes, . . . even in such as are excoriatable.Sir T. Browne.
EXCORIATE
To strip or wear off the skin of; to abrade; to gall; to breakand remove the cuticle of, in any manner, as by rubbing, beating, orby the action of acrid substances.
EXCORTICATE
To strip of bark or skin; to decorticate. [Obs.] "Excorticatethe tree." Evelyn.
EXCORTICATION
The act of stripping off bark, or the state of being thusstripped; decortication.
EXCREABLE
Capable of being discharged by spitting. [Obs.] Swift.
EXCREATE
To spit out; to discharge from the throat by hawking andspitting. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EXCREATION
Act of spitting out. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EXCREMENT
Matter excreted and ejected; that which is excreted or cast outof the animal body by any of the natural emunctories; especially,alvine, discharges; dung; ordure.
EXCREMENTAL
Of or pertaining to excrement.
EXCREMENTIVE
Serving to excrete; connected with excretion or excrement. [R.]"The excrementive parts." Felthman.
EXCREMENTIZE
To void excrement. [R.] Life of A. Wood
EXCRESCENCE
An excrescent appendage, as, a wart or tumor; anything growingout unnaturally from anything else; a preternatural or morbiddevelopment; hence, a troublesome superfluity; an incumbrance; as, anexcrescence on the body, or on a plant. "Excrescences of joy." Jer.Taylor.The excrescences of the Spanish monarchy. Addison.
EXCRESCENCY
Excrescence. [Obs.]
EXCRESCENT
Growing out in an abnormal or morbid manner or as asuperfluity.Expunge the whole, or lip the excrescent parts. Pope.Excrescent letter (Philol.), a letter which has been added to a root;as, the d in alder (AS. alr) is an excrescent letter.
EXCRESCENTIAL
Pertaining to, or resembling, an excrescence. [R.] Hawthorne.
EXCRETA
Matters to be excreted.
EXCRETE
To separate and throw off; to excrete urine. "The mucus thusexcreted." Hooper.
EXCRETIN
A nonnitrogenous, crystalline body, present in small quantityin human fรฆces.
EXCRETIVE
Having the power of excreting, or promoting excretion. Harvey.
EXCRETORY
Having the quality of excreting, or throwing offexcrementitious matter.
EXCRUCIABLE
Liable to torment. [R.] Bailey.
EXCRUCIATE
Excruciated; tortured.And here my heart long time excruciate. Chapman.
EXCRUCIATING
. Torturing; racking. "Excruciating pain." V. Knox."Excruciating fears." Bentley -- Ex*cru"ci*a`ting*ly, adv.
EXCRUCIATION
The act of inflicting agonizing pain, or the state of beingthus afflicted; that which excruciates; torture. Feltham.
EXCUBATION
A keeping watch. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXCUBITORIUM
A gallery in a church, where persons watched all night.
EXCULPABLE
. Capable of being exculpated; deserving exculpation. Sir G.Buck.
EXCULPATE
To clear from alleged fault or guilt; to prove to be guiltless;to relieve of blame; to acquit.He exculpated himself from being the author of the heroic epistle.Mason.I exculpate him further for his writing against me. Milman.
EXCULPATION
The act of exculpating from alleged fault or crime; that whichexculpates; excuse.These robbers, however, were men who might have made out a strongcase in exculpation of themselves. Southey.
EXCULPATORY
. Clearing, or tending to clear, from alleged fault or guilt;excusing. "An exculpatory letter." Johnson.
EXCUR
To run out or forth; to extend. [Obs.] Harvey.
EXCURRENT
Running or extending out; as, an excurrent midrib, one whichprojects beyond the apex of a leaf; an excurrent steam or trunk, onewhich continues to the top.
EXCURSE
To journey or pass thought. [R.]
EXCURSION
Length of stroke, as of a piston; stroke. [An awkward use ofthe word.]
EXCURSIONIST
One who goes on an excursion, or pleasure trip.
EXCURSIVE
Prone to make excursions; wandering; roving; exploring; as, anexcursive fancy.The course of excursive . . . understandings. I. Taylor.-- Ex*cur"sive*ly, adv.-- Ex*cur"sive*ness, , n.
EXCURSUS
A dissertation or digression appended to a work, and containinga more extended exposition of some important point or topic.
EXCUSABLE
That may be excused, forgiven, justified, or acquitted ofblame; pardonable; as, the man is excusable; an excusable action.-- Ex*cus"a*ble*ness, n.-- Ex*cus"a*bly, adv.The excusableness of my dissatisfaction. Boyle.
EXCUSATION
Excuse; apology. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXCUSATOR
One who makes, or is authorized to make, an excuse; anapologist. [Obs.] Hume.
EXCUSATORY
Making or containing excuse or apology; apologetical; as, anexcusatory plea.
EXCUSELESS
Having no excuse; not admitting of excuse or apology. Whillock.
EXCUSEMENT
Excuse. [Obs.] Gower.
EXCUSSION
The act of excusing; seizure by law. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
EXECRABLE
Deserving to be execrated; accursed; damnable; detestable;abominable; as, an execrable wretch. "Execrable pride." Hooker.-- Ex"e*cra*ble*ness, n.-- Ex"e*cra*bly, adv.
EXECRATE
To denounce evil against, or to imprecate evil upon; to curse;to protest against as unholy or detestable; hence, to detest utterly;to abhor; to abominate. "They . . . execrate their lct." Cowper.
EXECRATIVE
Cursing; imprecatory; vilifying. Carlyle.-- Ex"e*cra*tive*ly, adv.
EXECRATORY
Of the nature of execration; imprecatory; denunciatory. C.Kingsley.-- n.
EXECT
To cut off or out. [Obs.] See Exsect. Harvey.
EXECTION
See Exsection.
EXECUTABLE
Capable of being executed; feasible; as, an executable project.[R.]
EXECUTANT
One who executes or performs; esp., a performer on a musicalinstrument.Great executants on the organ. De Quincey.
EXECUTE
To perform, as a piece of music, either on an instrument orwith the voice; as, to execute a difficult part brilliantly.
EXECUTER
One who performs or carries into effect. See Executor.
EXECUTIVE
Designed or fitted for execution, or carrying into effect; as,executive talent; qualifying for, concerned with, or pertaining to,the execution of the laws or the conduct of affairs; as, executivepower or authority; executive duties, officer, department, etc.
EXECUTIVELY
In the way of executing or performing.
EXECUTOR
The person appointed by a Executor de son tort Etym: [Of.,executor of his own wrong] (Law), a stranger who intermeddles withoutauthority in the distribution of the estate of a deceased person.
EXECUTORIAL
Of or pertaining to an executive.
EXECUTORSHIP
The office of an executor.
EXECUTORY
Designed to be executed or carried into effect in time to come,or to take effect on a future contingency; as, an executory devise,reminder, or estate; an executory contract. Blackstone.
EXECUTRESS
An executrix.
EXECUTRIX
A woman exercising the functions of an executor.
EXEDENT
Eating out; consuming. [R.]
EXEDRA
A room in a public building, furnished with seats.
EXEGESIS
The process of finding the roots of an equation. [Obs.]
EXEGETE
An exegetist.
EXEGETICS
The science of interpretation or exegesis.
EXEGETIST
One versed in the science of exegesis or interpretation; --also called exegete.
EXEMPLAR
Exemplary. [Obs.]The exemplar piety of the father of a family. Jer. Taylor.
EXEMPLARILY
In a manner fitted or designed to be an example for imitationor for warning; by way of example.She is exemplarily loyal. Howell.Some he punisheth exemplarily. Hakewill.
EXEMPLARINESS
The state or quality of being exemplary; fitness to be anexample.
EXEMPLARITY
Exemplariness. [R.]The exemplarity of Christ's life. Abp. Sharp.
EXEMPLARY
An exemplar; also, a copy of a book or writing. [Obs.] Donne.
EXEMPLIFIABLE
That can be exemplified.
EXEMPLIFICATION
A copy or transcript attested to be correct by the seal of anofficer having custody of the original.
EXEMPLIFIER
One who exemplifies by following a pattern.
EXEMPTIBLE
That may be exempted.
EXEMPTION
The act of exempting; the state of being exempt; freedom fromany charge, burden, evil, etc., to which others are subject;immunity; privilege; as, exemption of certain articles from seizure;exemption from military service; exemption from anxiety, suffering,etc.
EXEMPTITIOUS
Separable. [Obs.] "Exemptitious from matter." Dr. H. More.
EXENTERATE
To take out the bowels or entrails of; to disembowel; toeviscerate; as, exenterated fishes. [R.]Exenterated rule-mongers and eviscerated logicians. Hare.
EXENTERATION
Act of exenterating. [R.]
EXEQUIAL
Of or pertaining to funerals; funereal.
EXEQUIOUS
Funereal. [Obs.] Drayton.
EXEQUY
A funeral rite (usually in the plural); the ceremonies ofburial; obsequies; funeral procession.But see his exequies fulfilled in Rouen. Shak.
EXERCENT
Practicing; professional. [Obs.] "Every exercent advocate."Ayliffe.
EXERCISABLE
That may be exercised, used, or exerted.
EXERCISE
To exercise one's self, as under military training; to drill;to take exercise; to use action or exertion; to practice gymnastics;as, to exercise for health or amusement.I wear my trusty sword, When I do exercise. Cowper.
EXERCISER
One who exercises.
EXERCISIBLE
Capable of being exercised, employed, or enforced; as, theauthority of a magistrate is exercisible within his jurisdiction.
EXERCITATION
exercise; practice; use. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
EXERGUE
The small space beneath the base line of a subject engraved ona coin or medal. It usually contains the date, place, engraver'sname, etc., or other subsidiary matter. Fairholt.
EXERTION
The act of exerting, or putting into motion or action; theactive exercise of any power or faculty; an effort, esp. a laboriousor perceptible effort; as, an exertion of strength or power; anexertion of the limbs or of the mind; it is an exertion for him tomove, to-day.
EXERTIVE
Having power or a tendency to exert; using exertion.
EXERTMENT
Exertion. [R.]
EXESION
The act of eating out or through. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXESTUATE
To be agitated; to boil up; to effervesce. [Obs.]
EXESTUATION
A boiling up; effervescence. [Obs.] Boyle.
EXEUNT
They go out, or retire from the scene; as, exeunt all exceptHamlet. See 1st Exit.
EXFETATION
Imperfect fetation in some organ exterior to the uterus; extra-uterine fetation. Hoblyn.
EXFOLIATE
To split into scales, especially to become converted intoscales at the result of heat or decomposition.
EXFOLIATION
The scaling off of a bone, a rock, or a mineral, etc.; thestate of being exfoliated.
EXFOLIATIVE
Having the power of causing exfoliation.-- n.
EXHALABLE
Capable of being exhaled or evaporated. Boyle.
EXHALANT
Having the quality of exhaling or evaporating.
EXHALE
To rise or be given off, as vapor; to pass off, or vanish.Their inspiration exhaled in elegies. Prescott.
EXHALEMENT
Exhalation. [Obs.]
EXHALENCE
Exhalation. [R.]
EXHAUST
To subject to the action of various solvents in order to removeall soluble substances or extractives; as, to exhaust a drugsuccessively with water, alcohol, and ether. Exhausted receiver.(Physics) See under Receiver.
EXHAUSTER
One who, or that which, exhausts or draws out.
EXHAUSTIBILITY
Capability of being exhausted.I was seriously tormented by the thought of the exhaustibility ofmusical combinations. J. S. Mill.
EXHAUSTIBLE
Capable of being exhausted, drained off, or expended. Johnson.
EXHAUSTING
Producing exhaustion; as, exhausting labors.-- Ex*haust"ing, adv.
EXHAUSTION
An ancient geometrical method in which an exhaustive processwas employed. It was nearly equivalent to the modern method oflimits.
EXHAUSTIVE
Serving or tending to exhaust; exhibiting all the facts orarguments; as, an exhaustive method. Ex*haust"ive*ly, adv.
EXHAUSTLESS
Not be exhausted; inexhaustible; as, an exhaustless fund orstore.
EXHAUSTMENT
Exhaustion; drain. [Obs.]
EXHAUSTURE
Exhaustion. Wraxall.
EXHEDRA
See Exedra.
EXHEREDATE
To disinherit. [R.] Huloet.
EXHEREDATION
A disinheriting; disherisor. [R.]
EXHEREDITATION
A disinheriting; disherison. [R.] E. Waterhouse.
EXHIBIT
To submit, as a document, to a court or officer, in course ofproceedings; also, to present or offer officially or in legal form;to bring, as a charge.He suffered his attorney-general to exhibit a charge of high treasonagainst the earl. Clarendon.
EXHIBITER
One who exhibits; one who presents a petition, charge or bill.Shak.
EXHIBITION
The act of administering a remedy.
EXHIBITIONER
One who has a pension or allowance granted for support.A youth who had as an exhibitioner from Christ's Hospital. G. Eliot.
EXHIBITIVE
Serving for exhibition; representative; exhibitory. Norris.-- Ex*hib"it*ive*ly, adv.
EXHIBITOR
One who exhibits.
EXHIBITORY
Exhibiting; publicly showing. J. Warton.
EXHILARANT
Exciting joy, mirth, or pleasure.-- n.
EXHILARATE
To make merry or jolly; to enliven; to animate; to gladdengreatly; to cheer; as, good news exhilarates the mind; wineexhilarates a man.
EXHILARATING
That exhilarates; cheering; gladdening.-- Ex*hil"a*ra`ting*ly, adv.
EXHORT
To incite by words or advice; to animate or urge by arguments,as to a good deed or laudable conduct; to address exhortation to; tourge strongly; hence, to advise, warn, or caution.Examples gross as earth exhort me. Shak.Let me exhort you to take care of yourself. J. D. Forbes.
EXHORTATIVE
Serving to exhort; exhortatory; hortative. Barrow.
EXHORTATORY
Of or pertaining to exhortation; hortatory. Holinshed.
EXHORTER
One who exhorts or incites.
EXHUMATED
Disinterred. [Obs.]
EXHUMATION
The act of exhuming that which has been buried; as, theexhumation of a body.
EXHUME
To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; todisinter. Mantell.
EXICCATE
See Exsiccate. [Obs.] Holland.
EXICCATION
See Exsiccation. [Obs.]
EXIGENCE
Exigency. Hooker.
EXIGENCY
The state of being exigent; urgent or exacting want; pressingnecessity or distress; need; a case demanding immediate action,supply, or remedy; as, an unforeseen exigency. "The present exigencyof his affairs." Ludlow.
EXIGENDARY
See Exigenter.
EXIGENT
Exacting or requiring immediate aid or action; pressing;critical. "At this exigent moment." Burke.
EXIGENTER
An officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whoseduty it was make out exigents. The office in now abolished. Cowell.
EXIGIBLE
That may be exacted; repairable. [R.] A. Smith.
EXIGUITY
Scantiness; smallness; thinness. [R.] Boyle.
EXIGUOUS
Scanty; small; slender; diminutive. [R.] "Exiguous resources."Carlyle.-- Ex*ig"uous*ness, n. [R.]
EXILE
To banish or expel from one's own country or home; to driveaway. "Exiled from eternal God." Tennyson.Calling home our exiled friends abroad. Shak.
EXILEMENT
Banishment. [R.] Sir. H. Wotton.
EXILIC
Pertaining to exile or banishment, esp. to that of the Jews inBabylon. Encyc. Dict.
EXILITION
A sudden springing or leaping out. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXILITY
Smallness; meagerness; slenderness; fineness, thinness. [R.]Paley.
EXIMIOUS
Select; choice; hence, extraordinary, excellent. [Obs.]The eximious and arcane science of physic. Fuller.
EXINANITE
To make empty; to render of no effect; to humble. [Obs.] Bp.Pearson.
EXINANITION
n. [L. exinanitio.] An emptying; an enfeebling; exhaustion;humiliation. [Obs.]Fastings to the exinanition of spirits. Jer. Taylor.
EXISTENCY
Existence. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
EXISTENT
Having being or existence; existing; being; occurring now;taking place.The eyes and mind are fastened on objects which have no real being,as if they were truly existent. Dryden.
EXISTENTIAL
Having existence. [Archaic] Bp. Barlow. --Ex`is*ten"tial*ly,adv. [Archaic]Existentially as well as essentially intelligent. Colerige.
EXISTER
One who exists.
EXISTIBLE
Capable of existence. Grew.
EXISTIMATION
Esteem; opinion; reputation. [Obs.] Steele.
EXIT
He (or she ) goes out, or retires from view; as, exit Macbeth.
EXMOOR
A prefix signifying out of, outside; as in exocarp, exogen,exoskeleton.
EXOCARP
The outer portion of a fruit, as the flesh of a peach or therind of an orange. See Illust. of Drupe.
EXOCCIPITAL
Pertaining to a bone or region on each side of the greatforemen of the skull.-- n.
EXOCULATE
To deprive of eyes. [R.] W. C. Hazlitt.
EXODE
The final chorus; the catastrophe.
EXODIC
Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said ofthe motor or efferent nerves. Opposed to esodic.
EXODIUM
See Exode.
EXODY
Exodus; withdrawal. [Obs.]The time of the Jewish exody. Sir M. Hale.
EXOGAMOUS
Relating to exogamy; marrying outside of the limits of one'sown tribe; -- opposed to endogenous.
EXOGAMY
The custom, or tribal law, which prohibits marriage betweenmembers of the same tribe; marriage outside of the tribe; -- opposedto endogamy. Lubbock.
EXOGEN
A plant belonging to one of the greater part of the vegetablekingdom, and which the plants are characterized by having c woodbark, and pith, the wood forming a layer between the other two, andincreasing, if at all, by the animal addition of a new layer to theoutside next to the bark. The leaves are commonly netted-veined, andthe number of cotyledons is two, or, very rarely, several in a whorl.Cf. Endogen. Gray.
EXOGENETIC
Arising or growing from without; exogenous.
EXOGENOUS
Pertaining to, or having the character of, an exogen; -- theopposite of endogenous.
EXOGYRA
A genus of Cretaceous fossil shells allied to oysters.
EXOLETE
Obsolete; out of use; state; insipid. [Obs.]
EXOLUTION
See Exsolution. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXOLVE
To loose; to pay. [Obs.]
EXON
A native or inhabitant of Exeter, in England.
EXONERATION
The act of disburdening, discharging, or freeing morally from acharge or imputation; also, the state of being disburdened or freedfrom a charge.
EXONERATIVE
Freeing from a burden or obligation; tending to exonerate.
EXONERATOR
One who exonerates or frees from obligation.
EXOPHTHALMIA
The protrusion of the eyeball so that the eyelids will notcover it, in consequence of disease.
EXOPHTHALMIC
Of or pertaining to, or characterized by, exophthalmia.Exophthalmic golter. Same as Rasedow's disease.
EXOPHTHALMY
Exophthalmia.
EXOPHYLLOUS
Not sheathed in another leaf.
EXOPLASM
See Ectosarc, and Ectoplasm.
EXOPODITE
The external branch of the appendages of Crustacea.
EXOPTABLE
Very desirable. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXOPTILE
A name given by Lestiboudois to dicotyledons; -- so calledbecause the plumule is naked.
EXORABLE
Capable of being moved by entreaty; pitiful; tender. Milton.
EXORATE
To persuade, or to gain, by entreaty. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EXORATION
Entreaty. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
EXORBITANTLY
In an exorbitant, excessive, or irregular manner; enormously.
EXORBITATE
To go out of the track; to deviate. [Obs.] Bentley.
EXORCISER
An exorcist.
EXORDIAL
Pertaining to the exordium of a discourse: introductory.The exordial paragraph of the second epistle. I. Taylor.
EXORDIUM
A beginning; an introduction; especially, the introductory partof a discourse or written composition, which prepares the audiencefor the main subject; the opening part of an oration. "The exordiumof repentance." Jer. Taylor. "Long prefaces and exordiums. " Addison.
EXORHIZA
A plant Whose radicle is not inclosed or sheathed by thecotyledons or plumule. Gray.
EXORNATION
Ornament; decoration; embellishment. [Obs.]Hyperbolical exornations . . . many much affect. Burton.
EXORTIVE
Rising; relating to the east. [R.]
EXOSCULATE
To kiss; especially, to kiss repeatedly or fondly. [Obs.]
EXOSKELETAL
Pertaining to the exoskeleton; as exoskeletal muscles.
EXOSKELETON
The hardened parts of the external integument of an animal,including hair, feathers, nails, horns, scales, etc.,as well as thearmor of armadillos and many reptiles, and the shells or hardenedintegument of numerous invertebrates; external skeleton;dermoskeleton.
EXOSMOSE
The passage of gases, vapors, or liquids thought membranes orporous media from within outward, in the phenomena of osmose; --opposed to endosmose. See Osmose.
EXOSMOSIS
See Exosmose.
EXOSMOTIC
Pertaining to exosmose.
EXOSPORE
The extreme outer wall of a spore; the epispore.
EXOSSATE
To deprive of bones; to take out the bones of; to bone. [Obs.]Bailey.
EXOSSATION
A depriving of bone or of fruit stones. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXOSSEOUS
Boneless. "Exosseous animals. " Sir T. Browne.
EXOSTOME
The small aperture or foremen in the outer coat of the ovule ofa plant.
EXOSTOSIS
Any protuberance of a bone which is not natural; an excrescenceor morbid enlargement of a bone. Coxe.
EXOTERICS
The public lectures or published writings of Aristotle. SeeEsoterics.
EXOTERY
That which is obvious, public, or common.Dealing out exoteries only to the vulgar. A. Tucker.
EXOTHECA
The tissue which fills the interspaces between the costรฆ ofmany madreporarian corals, usually consisting of small transverse oroblique septa.
EXOTHECIUM
The outer coat of the anther.
EXOTHERMIC
Characterized by, or formed with, evolution of heat; as, anexothermic reaction; -- opposed to endothermic.
EXOTIC
Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous;foreign; as, an exotic plant; an exotic term or word.Nothing was so splendid and exotic as the ambassador. Evelyn.
EXOTICAL
Foreign; not native; exotic. [R.] -- Ex*ot"ic*al*ness, n.
EXOTICISM
The state of being exotic; also, anything foreign, as a word oridiom; an exotic.
EXPAND
To state in enlarged form; to develop; as, to expand anequation. See Expansion, 5.
EXPANDER
Anything which causes expansion esp. (Mech.) a tool forstretching open or expanding a tube, etc.
EXPANDING
That expands, or may be expanded; extending; spreading;enlarging. Expanding bit, Expanding drill (Mech.), a bit or drillmade adjustable for holes of various sizes; one which can be expandedin diameter while boring.-- Expanding pulley (Mach.), a pulley so made, as in sections, thatits diameter can be increased or diminished.
EXPANSE
That which is expanded or spread out; a wide extent of space orbody; especially, the arch of the sky. "The green expanse." Savage.Lights . . . high in the expanse of heaven. Milton.The smooth expanse of crystal lakes. Pope.
EXPANSIBILITY
The capacity of being expanded; as, the expansibility of air.
EXPANSIBLE
Capable of being expanded or spread out widely.Bodies are not expansible in proposition to their weight.Ex*pab"si*ble*ness ,n. -Ex*pan"si*bly ,adv.
EXPANSILE
Expansible.Ether and alcohol are more expansile than water. Brande & C.
EXPANSION
Enlargement or extension of business transaction; esp.,increase of the circulation of bank notes.
EXPANSIVE
Having a capacity or tendency to expand or dilate; diffusive;of much expanse; wide-extending; as, the expansive force of heat; theexpansive quality of air.A more expansive and generous compassion. Eustace.His forehead was broad and expansive. Prescott.-- Ex*pan"sive*ly, adv. -Ex*pan"sive*ness, n.
EXPANSURE
Expanse. [Obs.] "Night's rich expansure."
EXPATIATE
To expand; to spread; to extend; to diffuse; to broaden.Afford art an ample field in which to expatiate itself. Dryden.
EXPATIATION
Act of expatiating.
EXPATIATORY
Expansive; diffusive. [R.]
EXPATRIATION
The act of banishing, or the state of banishment; especially,the forsaking of one's own country with a renunciation of allegiance.Expatriation was a heavy ransom to pay for the rights of their mindsand souls. Palfrey.
EXPECT
To wait; to stay. [Obs.] Sandys.
EXPECTABLE
That may be expected or looked for. Sir T. Browne.
EXPECTANT
Waiting in expectation; looking for; (Med.)
EXPECTATION
The leaving of the disease principally to the efforts of natureto effect a cure. Expectation of life, the mean or average durationof the life individuals after any specified age.
EXPECTATIVE
Constituting an object of expectation; contingent. Expectativegrace, a mandate given by the pope or a prince appointing a successorto any benefice before it becomes vacant. Foxe.
EXPECTEDLY
In conformity with expectation. [R.] Walpole.
EXPECTER
One who expects.
EXPECTINGLY
In state of expectation.
EXPECTIVE
Expectative. [R.] Shipley.
EXPECTORANT
Tending to facilitate expectoration or to promote discharges ofmucus, etc., from the lungs or throat.-- n.
EXPECTORATE
To eject from the trachea or lungs; to discharge, as phlegm orother matter, by coughing, hawking, and spitting; to spit forth.
EXPECTORATIVE
Same as Expectorant. Harvey.
EXPEDE
To expedite; to hasten. [Obs.]
EXPEDIATE
To hasten; to expedite. [Obs.] "To expediate their business."Sir E. Sandys.
EXPEDIENTIAL
. Governed by expediency; seeking advantage; as an expedientialpolicy. "Calculating, expediential understanding." Hare.-- Ex*pe`di*en"tial*ly , adv.
EXPEDIMENT
An expedient. [Obs.]A like expediment to remove discontent. Barrow.
EXPEDITATE
To deprive of the claws or the balls of the fore feet; as, toexpeditate a dog that he may not chase deer.
EXPEDITELY
In expedite manner; expeditiously.
EXPEDITENESS
Quality of being expedite.
EXPEDITIONARY
Of or pertaining to an expedition; as, an expeditionary force.
EXPEDITIONIST
One who goes upon an expedition. [R].
EXPEDITIOUS
Possessed of, or characterized by, expedition, or efficiencyand rapidity in action; performed with, or acting with, expedition;quick; having celerity; speedily; as, an expeditious march ormessenger.-- Ex`pe*di"tious*ly, adv.-- Ex`pe*di"tious*ness, n.
EXPEDITIVE
Performing with speed. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXPELLABLE
Capable of being expelled or driven out. "Expellable by heat."Kirwan.
EXPELLER
One who. or that which, expels.
EXPEND
To lay out, apply, or employ in any way; to consume by use; touse up or distribute, either in payment or in donations; to spend;as, they expend money for food or in charity; to expend time labor,and thought; to expend hay in feeding cattle, oil in a lamp, water inmechanical operations.If my death might make this island happy . . . I would expend it withall willingness. Shak.
EXPENDITOR
A disburser; especially, one of the disbursers of taxes for therepair of sewers. Mozley & W.
EXPENSEFULL
Full of expense; costly; chargeable. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.-- Ex*pense"ful*ly, adv. [R.] -- Ex*pense"ful*ness, n. [R.]
EXPENSELESS
Without cost or expense.
EXPERIENCE TABLE
A table of mortality computed from the experience of one ormore life-insurance companies.
EXPERIENCED
Taught by practice or by repeated observations; skillful orwise by means of trials, use, or observation; as, an experiencedphysician, workman, soldier; an experienced eye.The ablest and most experienced statesmen. Bancroft.
EXPERIENT
Experienced. [Obs.]The prince now ripe and full experient. Beau & Fl.
EXPERIENTIAL
Derived from, or pertaining to, experience. Coleridge.It is called empirical or experiential . . . because it is divan tous by experience or observation, and not obtained as the result ofinference or reasoning. Sir. W. Hamiltion.-- Ex*pe`ri*en"tial*ly, adv. DR. H. More.
EXPERIENTIALISM
The doctrine that experience, either that ourselves or ofothers, is the test or criterion of general knowledge; -- opposed tointuitionists.Experientialism is in short, a philosophical or logical theory, not aphilosophical one. G. C. Robertson.
EXPERIENTIALIST
One who accepts the doctrine of experientialism. Also usedadjectively.
EXPERIMENT
To make experiment; to operate by test or trial; -- often withon, upon, or in, referring to the subject of an experiment; with,referring to the instrument; and by, referring to the means; as, toexperiment upon electricity; he experimented in plowing with ponies,or by steam power.
EXPERIMENTALIST
One who makes experiments; an experimenter. Whaterly.
EXPERIMENTALIZE
To make experiments (upon); to experiment. J. S. Mill.
EXPERIMENTALLY
By experiment; by experience or trial. J. S. Mill.
EXPERIMENTARIAN
Relying on experiment or experience. "an experimentarianphilosopher." Boyle.-- n.
EXPERIMENTATION
The act of experimenting; practice by experiment. J. S. Mill.
EXPERIMENTATIVE
Experimental; of the nature of experiment. [R.]
EXPERIMENTATOR
An experimenter. [R.]
EXPERIMENTER
One who makes experiments; one skilled in experiments. Faraday.
EXPERIMENTIST
An experimenter.
EXPERRECTION
A waking up or arousing. [Obs.] Holland
EXPERT
Taught by use, practice, or experience, experienced; havingfacility of operation or performance from practice; knowing and readyfrom much practice; clever; skillful; as, an expert surgeon; expertin chess or archery.A valiant and most expert gentleman. Shak.What practice, howsoe'er expert In fitting aptest words to things . .. Hath power to give thee as thou wert Tennison.
EXPERTLY
In a skillful or dexterous manner; adroitly; with readiness andaccuracy.
EXPERTNESS
Skill derived from practice; readiness; as, expertness inseamanship, or in reasoning.
EXPETIBLE
Worthy of being wished for; desirable. [Obs.] Puller.
EXPIABLE
Capable of being expiated or atoned for; as, an expiableoffense; expiable guilt. Bp. Hall.
EXPIATE
Terminated. [Obs.] Shak.
EXPIATIST
An expiator. [R.]
EXPIATOR
One who makes expiation or atonement.
EXPIATORIOUS
Of an expiatory nature; expiatory. Jer. Taylor.
EXPIATORY
Having power, or intended, to make expiation; atoning; as, anexpiatory sacrifice.
EXPILATION
The act of expilating or stripping off; plunder; pillage.[Obs.]This ravenous expiation of the state. Daniel.
EXPILATOR
One who pillages; a plunderer; a pillager. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
EXPIRABLE
That may expire; capable of being brought to an end.
EXPIRANT
One who expires or is expiring.
EXPIRATION
The act or process of breathing out, or forcing air from thelungs through the nose or mouth; as, respiration consists ofinspiration and expiration; -- opposed to Ant: inspiration.(b) Emission of volatile matter; exhalation.The true cause of cold is an expiration from the globe of the earth.Bacon.
EXPIRATORY
Pertaining to, or employed in, the expiration or emission ofair from the lungs; as, the expiratory muscles.
EXPIRY
Expiration.He had to leave at the expiry of the term. Lamb.The Parliament . . . now approaching the expiry of its legal term. J.Morley.
EXPISCATE
To fish out; to find out by skill or laborious investigation;to search out. "To expiscate principles." [R.] Nichol.Dr.Burton has with much ingenuity endeavord to expiscate the truthwhich may be involved in them. W. L. Alexander.
EXPISCATION
The act of expiscating; a fishing. [R.] Chapman.
EXPISCATORY
Tending to fish out; searching out [R.] Carlyle.
EXPLAIN
To give an explanation.
EXPLAINABLE
Capable of being explained or made plain to the understanding;capable of being interpreted. Sir. T. Browne.
EXPLAINER
One who explains; an expounder or expositor; a commentator; aninterpreter.
EXPLANATE
Spreading or extending outwardly in a flat form.
EXPLANATIVE
Explanatory.
EXPLANATORINESS
The quality of being explanatory.
EXPLANATORY
Serving to explain; containing explanation; as explanatorynotes. Swift.
EXPLETION
Accomplishment; fulfillment. [Obs.] Killingbeck.
EXPLETIVE
Filling up; hence, added merely for the purpose of filling up;superfluous. "Expletive imagery." Hallam.Expletive phrases to plump his speech. Barrow.
EXPLETIVELY
In the manner of an expletive.
EXPLETORY
Serving to fill up; expletive; superfluous; as, an expletoryword. Bp. Burnet.
EXPLICABLE
Capable of being explicated; that may be explained or accountedfor; admitting explanation.It is not explicable upon any grounds. Burke.
EXPLICABLENESS
Quality of being explicable.
EXPLICATE
Evolved; unfolded. Jer. Taylor.
EXPLICATIVE
Serving to unfold or explain; tending to lay open to theunderstanding; explanatory. Sir W. Hamilton.
EXPLICATOR
One who unfolds or explains; an expounder; an explainer.
EXPLICATORY
Explicative. Barrow.
EXPLICIT
A word formerly used (as finis is now) at the conclusion of abook to indicate the end.
EXPLICITLY
In an explicit manner; clearly; plainly; without disguise orreservation of meaning; not by inference or implication; as, heexplicitly avows his intention.
EXPLICITNESS
The quality of being explicit; clearness; directness. Jer.Taylor.
EXPLOIT
To utilize; to make available; to get the value or usefulnessout of; as, to exploit a mine or agricultural lands; to exploitpublic opinion. [Recent]
EXPLOITATION
The act of exploiting or utilizing. J. D. Whitney.
EXPLORABLE
That may be explored; as, an explorable region.
EXPLORATE
To explore. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne.
EXPLORATION
The act of exploring, penetrating, or ranging over for purposesof discovery, especially of geographical discovery; examination; as,the exploration of unknown countries; (Med.)
EXPLORATIVE
Exploratory.
EXPLORATOR
One who explores; one who examines closely; a searcher.
EXPLORATORY
Serving or intended to explore; searching; examining;explorative. Sir H. Wotton.
EXPLOREMENT
The act of exploring; exploration. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
EXPLORER
One who explores; also, an apparatus with which one explores,as a diving bell.
EXPLORING
Employed in, or designed for, exploration. "Exploring parties."Bancroft.
EXPLOSIVE
Driving or bursting out with violence and noise; causingexplosion; as, the explosive force of gunpowder.
EXPLOSIVELY
In an explosive manner.
EXPOLIATION
See Exspoliation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
EXPOLISH
To polish thoroughly. [Obs.] Heywood.
EXPONE
To expound; to explain; also, to expose; to imperil. [Old Eng.& Scotch] Drummond.
EXPONENT
A number, letter, or any quantity written on the right hand ofand above another quantity, and denoting how many times the latter isrepeated as a factor to produce the power indicated;
EXPONENTIAL
Pertaining to exponents; involving variable exponents; as, anexponential expression; exponential calculus; an exponentialfunction. Exponential curve, a curve whose nature is defined by meansof an exponential equation.-- Exponential equation, an equation which contains an exponentialquantity, or in which the unknown quantity enters as an exponent.-- Exponential quantity (Math.), a quantity whose exponent isunknown or variable, as ax.-- Exponential series, a series derived from the development ofexponential equations or quantities.
EXPORTABILITY
The quality or state of being suitable for exportation.To increase the exportability of native goods. J. P. Peters.
EXPORTABLE
Suitable for exportation; as, exportable products.
EXPORTER
One who exports; the person who sends goods or commodities to aforeign country, in the way of commerce; -- opposed to importer.
EXPOSAL
Exposure. Swift.
EXPOSE
A formal recital or exposition of facts; exposure, orrevelation, of something which some one wished to keep concealed.
EXPOSEDNESS
The state of being exposed, laid open, or unprotected; as, anexposedness to sin or temptation.
EXPOSER
One who exposes or discloses.
EXPOSITIVE
Serving to explain; expository. Bp. Pearson.
EXPOSITOR
One who, or that which, expounds or explains; an expounder; acommentator. Bp. Horsley.
EXPOSITORY
Pertaining to, or containing, exposition; serving to explain;explanatory; illustrative; exegetical.A glossary or expository index to the poetical writers. Johnson.
EXPOSTULATE
To reason earnestly with a person on some impropriety of hisconduct, representing the wrong he has done or intends, and urginghim to make redress or to desist; to remonstrate; -- followed bywith.Men expostulate with erring friends; they bring accusations againstenemies who have done them a wrong. Jowett (Thuc. ).
EXPOSTULATION
The act of expostulating or reasoning with a person inopposition to some impropriety of conduct; remonstrance; earnest andkindly protest; dissuasion.We must use expostulation kindly. Shak.
EXPOSTULATOR
One who expostulates. Lamb.
EXPOSTULATORY
Containing expostulation or remonstrance; as, an expostulatorydiscourse or letter.
EXPOSTURE
Exposure. [Obs.] Shak.
EXPOSURE
The exposing of a sensitized plate to the action of light.
EXPOUNDER
One who expounds or explains; an interpreter.
EXPRESS RIFLE
A sporting rifle for use at short ranges, employing a largecharge of powder and a light (short) bullet, giving a high initialvelocity and consequently a flat trajectory. It is usually ofmoderately large caliber.
EXPRESS TRAIN
Formerly, a railroad train run expressly for the occasion; aspecial train; now, a train run at express or special speed andmaking few stops.
EXPRESSAGE
The charge for carrying a parcel by express.
EXPRESSIBLE
Capable of being expressed, squeezed out, shown, represented,or uttered.-- Express"i*bly,adv.
EXPRESSION
The representation of any quantity by its appropriatecharacters or signs. Past expression, Beyond expression, beyond thepower of description. "Beyond expression bright." Milton.
EXPRESSIONAL
Of, or relating to, expression; phraseological; also, vividlyrepresenting or suggesting an idea sentiment. Fized. Hall. Ruskin.
EXPRESSIONLESS
Destitute of expression.
EXPRESSLY
In an express manner; in direct terms; with distinct purpose;particularly; as, a book written expressly for the young.The word of the Lord came expressly unto Ezekiel. Ezek. i. 3.I am sent expressly to your lordship. Shak.
EXPRESSMAN
A person employed in the express business; also, the driver ofa job wagon. W. D. Howells.
EXPRESSNESS
The state or quality of being express; definiteness. [Obs.]Hammond.
EXPRESSURE
The act of expressing; expression; utterance; representation.[Obs.]An operation more divine Than breath or pen can give expressure to.Shak.
EXPROBRATE
To charge upon with reproach; to upbraid. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
EXPROBRATION
Reproachful accusation; upbraiding. [Obs.]A fearful exprobration of our unworthiness. Jer. Taylor.
EXPROPRIATE
To put out of one's possession; to surrender the ownership of;also, to deprive of possession or proprietary rights. Boyle.Expropriate these [bad landlords] as the monks were expropriated byAct of Parliament. M. Arnold.
EXPROPRIATION
The act of expropriating; the surrender of a claim to exclusiveproperty; the act of depriving of ownership or proprietary rights. W.Montagu.The expropriation of bad landlords. M. Arnold.
EXPUGN
To take by assault; to storm; to overcome; to vanquish; as, toexpugn cities; to expugn a person by arguments.
EXPUGNABLE
Capable of being expugnded.
EXPUGNATION
The act of taking by assault; conquest. [R.] Sandys.
EXPUGNER
One who expugns.
EXPULSE
To drive out; to expel. [Obs.]If charity be thus excluded and expulsed. Milton.
EXPULSER
An expeller. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
EXPULSIVE
Having the power of driving out or away; serving to expel.The expulsive power of a new affection. Chalmers.
EXPUNCTION
The act of expunging or erasing; the condition of beingexpunged. Milton.
EXPURGATE
To purify; to clear from anything noxious, offensive, orerroneous; to cleanse; to purge; as, to expurgate a book.
EXPURGATION
The act of expurgating, purging, or cleansing; purificationfrom anything noxious, offensive, sinful, or erroneous. Milton.
EXPURGATOR
One who expurgates or purifies.
EXPURGATORIAL
Tending or serving to expurgate; expurgatory. Milman.
EXPURGATORIOUS
Expurgatory. [Obs.] "Expurgatorious indexes." Milton.
EXPURGATORY
Serving to purify from anything noxious or erroneous;cleansing; purifying. "Expurgatory animadversions." Sir T. Browne.Expurgatory Index. See Index Expurgatorius, under Index.
EXPURGE
To purge away. [Obs.] Milton.
EXQUIRE
To search into or out. [Obs.] Chapman.
EXQUISITE
One who manifests an exquisite attention to externalappearance; one who is overnice in dress or ornament; a fop; a dandy.
EXQUISITELY
In an exquisite manner or degree; as, lace exquisitely wrought.To a sensitive observer there was something exquisitely painful init. Hawthorne.
EXQUISITENESS
Quality of being exquisite.
EXQUISITIVE
Eager to discover or learn; curious. [Obs.] Todd.-- Ex*quis"i*tive*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
EXSANGUINE
Bloodless. [R.]
EXSANGUINEOUS
Destitute of blood; anรฆmic; exsanguious.
EXSANGUINITY
Privation or destitution of blood; -- opposed to plethora.Dunglison.
EXSANGUINOUS
See Exsanguious.
EXSANGUIOUS
Destitute of true, or red, blood, as insects.
EXSCIND
To cut off; to separate or expel from union; to extirpate.Barrow.The second presbytery of Philadelphia was also exscinded by thatAssembly. Am. Cyc.
EXSCRIBE
To copy; to transcribe. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
EXSCRIPT
A copy; a transcript. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXSCRIPTURAL
Not in accordance with the doctrines of Scripture;unscriptural.
EXSCUTELLATE
Without, or apparently without, a scutellum; -- said of certaininsects.
EXSECT
The removal by operation of a portion of a limb; particularly,the removal of a portion of a bone in the vicinity of a joint; theact or process of cutting out.
EXSERTILE
Capable of being thrust out or protruded. J. Fleming.
EXSICCANT
Having the quality of drying up; causing a drying up.-- n. (Med.)
EXSICCATE
To exhaust or evaporate moisture from; to dry up. Sir T.Browne.
EXSICCATION
The act of operation of drying; evaporation or expulsion ofmoisture; state of being dried up; dryness. Sir T. Browne.
EXSICCATIVE
Tending to make dry; having the power of drying.
EXSICCATOR
An apparatus for drying substances or preserving them frommoisture; a desiccator; also, less frequently, an agent employed toabsorb moisture, as calcium chloride, or concentrated sulphuric acid.
EXSILIENCY
A leaping out. [R.] Latham.
EXSOLUTION
Relaxation. [R.] Richardson (Dict. ).
EXSPOLIATION
Spoliation. [Obs. or R.] Bp. Hall.
EXSPUITION
A discharge of saliva by spitting. [R.] E. Darwin.
EXSPUTORY
Spit out, or as if spit out. "Exsputory lines." Cowper.
EXSTIPULATE
Having no stipules. Martyn.
EXSTROPHY
The eversion or turning out of any organ, or of its innersurface; as, exstrophy of the eyelid or of the bladder.
EXSUCCOUS
Destitute of juice; dry; sapless. Latham.
EXSUCTION
The act of sucking out.
EXSUDATION
Exudation.
EXSUFFLATE
To exorcise or renounce by blowing.
EXSUFFLATION
A kind of exorcism by blowing with the breath. Jer. Taylor.
EXSUFFLICATE
Empty; frivolous. [A Shakespearean word only once used.]Such exsufflicate and blown surmises. Shak. (Oth. iii. 3, 182).
EXSUSCITATE
To rouse; to excite. [Obs.] Johnson.
EXSUSCITATION
A stirring up; a rousing. [Obs.] Hallywell.
EXTACY
See Ecstasy. [Obs.]
EXTANCE
Outward existence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXTANCY
The state of rising above others; a projection. Evelyn. Boyle.
EXTASY
See Ecstasy, n. & v. t.
EXTATIC
See Ecstatic, a.
EXTEMPORAL
Extemporaneous; unpremeditated. [Obs.] B. Jonson.-- Ex*tem"po*ral*ly, adv. [Obs.]
EXTEMPORANEAN
Extemporaneous. [Obs] Burton.
EXTEMPORANEOUS
Composed, performed, or uttered on the spur of the moment, orwithout previous study; unpremeditated; off-hand; extempore;extemporary; as, an extemporaneous address or production.-- Ex*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Ex*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness,n.
EXTEMPORARILY
Extemporaneously.
EXTEMPORE
Without previous study or meditation; without preparation; onthe spur of the moment; suddenly; extemporaneously; as, to write orspeak extempore. Shak.-- a.
EXTEMPORINESS
The quality of being done or devised extempore [Obs.] Johnson.
EXTEMPORIZATION
The act of extemporizing; the act of doing anything extempore.
EXTEMPORIZE
To speak extempore; especially, to discourse without specialpreparation; to make an offhand address.
EXTEMPORIZER
One who extemporizes.
EXTEND
To value, as lands taken by a writ of extent in satisfaction ofa debt; to assign by writ of extent. Extended letter (Typog.), aletter, or style of type, having a broader face than is usual for aletter or type of the same height.
EXTENDANT
Displaced. Ogilvie.
EXTENDEDLY
In an extended manner.
EXTENDER
One who, or that which, extends or stretches anything.
EXTENDIBLE
Liable to be taken by a writ of extent.
EXTENDLESSNESS
Unlimited extension. [Obs.]An . . . extendlessness of excursions. Sir. M. Hale.
EXTENSE
Outreaching; expansive; extended, superficially or otherwise.Men and gods are too extense; Could you slacken and condense Emerson.
EXTENSIBILITY
The quality of being extensible; the capacity of beingextended; as, the extensibility of a fiber, or of a plate of metal.
EXTENSIBLE
Capable of being extended, whether in length or breadth;susceptible of enlargement; extensible; extendible; -- the oppositeof contractible or compressible. "An extensible membrane" Holder.
EXTENSIBLENESS
Extensibility.
EXTENSILE
Suited for, or capable of, extension; extensible. Owen.
EXTENSION
That property of a body by which it occupies a portion ofspace.
EXTENSIONAL
Having great extent.
EXTENSIONIST
One who favors or advocates extension.
EXTENSIVELY
To a great extent; widely; largely; as, a story is extensivelycirculated.
EXTENSIVENESS
The state of being extensive; wideness; largeness; extent;diffusiveness.
EXTENSOMETER
An instrument for measuring the extension of a body, especiallyfor measuring the elongation of bars of iron, steel, or othermaterial, when subjected to a tensile force.
EXTENSOR
A muscle which serves to extend or straighten any part of thebody, as an arm or a finger; -- opposed to flexor.
EXTENSURE
Extension. [R.] Drayton.
EXTENT
Extended. [Obs.] Spenser.
EXTENUATE
To become thinner; to make excuses; to advance palliatingconsiderations. Burke.
EXTENUATION
The act of axtenuating or the state of being extenuated; theact of making thin, slender, or lean, or of palliating; diminishing,or lessening; palliation, as of a crime; mitigation, as ofpunishment.To listen . . . to every extenuation of what is evil. I. Taylor.
EXTENUATOR
One who extenuates.
EXTENUATORY
Tending to extenuate or palliate. Croker.
EXTERIORITY
Surface; superficies; externality.
EXTERIORLY
Outwardly; externally; on the exterior. Shak.They are exteriorly lifelike. J. H. Morse.
EXTERMINATE
To eliminate, as unknown quantities. [R.]
EXTERMINATION
Elimination. [R.]
EXTERMINATOR
One who, or that which, exterminates. Buckle.
EXTERMINATORY
Of or pertaining to extermination; tending to exterminate."Exterminatory war." Burke.
EXTERMINE
To exterminate; to destroy. [Obs.] Shak.
EXTERN
External; outward; not inherent. [Obs.] Shak.
EXTERNAL
Away from the mesial plane of the body; lateral. Externalangles. (Geom.) See under Angle.
EXTERNALISM
That philosophy or doctrine which recognizes or deals only withexternals, or objects of sense perception; positivism; phenomenalism.
EXTERNALISTIC
Pertaining to externalism North Am. Rev.
EXTERNALITY
State of being external; exteriority; (Metaph.)
EXTERNALIZE
To make external; to manifest by outward form.Thought externalizes itself in language. Soyce.
EXTERNALLY
In an external manner; outwardly; on the outside; inappearance; visibly.
EXTERNE
An officer in attendance upon a hospital, but not residing init; esp., one who cares for the out-patients.
EXTERRANEOUS
Foreign; belonging to, or coming from, abroad.
EXTERRITORIAL
Beyond the territorial limits; foreign to, or exempt from, theterritorial jurisdiction.-- Ex*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#),adv.
EXTERSION
The act of wiping or rubbing out. [Obs.]
EXTILL
To drop or distill. [Obs.] Johnson.
EXTILLATION
Distillation. [Obs.]An exudation or extillation of petrifying juices. Derham.
EXTIMULATE
To stimulate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXTIMULATION
Stimulation. [Obs.]Things insipid, and without any extimulation. Bacon.
EXTINCT
To cause to be extinct. [Obs.] Shak.
EXTINE
The outer membrane of the grains of pollen of flowering plants.
EXTINGUISHABLE
Capable of being quenched, destroyed, or suppressed.
EXTINGUISHER
One who, or that which, extinguishes; esp., a hollow cone orother device for extinguishing a flame, as of a torch or candle.
EXTINGUISHMENT
The annihilation or extinction of a right or obligation.Abbott.
EXTIRP
To extirpate. [Obs.]It is impossible to extirp it quite, friar. Shak.
EXTIRPABLE
Capable of being extirpated or eradicated; as, an extirpableplant. Evelyn.
EXTIRPATE
To pluck up by the stem or root; to root out; to eradicate,literally or figuratively; to destroy wholly; as, to extirpate weeds;to extirpate a tumor; to extirpate a sect; to extirpate error orheresy.
EXTIRPATION
The act of extirpating or rooting out, or the state of beingextirpated; eradication; excision; total destruction; as, theextirpation of weeds from land, of evil from the heart, of a race ofmen, of heresy.
EXTIRPATIVE
Capable of rooting out, or tending to root out. Cheyne.
EXTIRPATOR
One who extirpates or roots out; a destroyer.
EXTIRPATORY
Extirpative.
EXTIRPER
Extirpator. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXTISPICIOUS
Relating to the inspection of entrails for prognostication.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXTOGENOUS
Exogenous.
EXTOLLER
One who extols; one who praises.
EXTOLMENT
Praise. [Obs.] Shak.
EXTORSIVE
Serving or tending to extort. [R.] Johnson.-- Ex*tor"sive*ly, adv. [R.]
EXTORT
To get by the offense of extortion. See Extortion, 2.
EXTORTER
One who practices extortion.
EXTORTION
The offense committed by an officer who corruptly claims andtakes, as his fee, money, or other thing of value, that is not due,or more than is due, or before it is due. Abbott.
EXTORTIONARY
Extortionate.
EXTORTIONATE
Characterized by extortion; oppressive; hard.
EXTORTIONER
, One who practices extortion.
EXTORTIOUS
Extortionate. [Obs.] "Extortious cruelties." Bp. Hall --Ex*tor"tious*ly, adv. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXTRA
Beyond what is due, usual, expected, or necessary; additional;supernumerary; also, extraordinarily good; superior; as, extra work;extra pay. "By working extra hours." H. Spencer.
EXTRA-
A Latin preposition, denoting beyond, outside of; -- often usedin composition as a prefix signifying outside of, beyond, besides, orin addition to what is denoted by the word to which it is prefixed.
EXTRA-OCULAR
Inserted exterior to the eyes; -- said of the antennรฆ ofcertain insects.
EXTRA-OFFICIAL
Not prescribed by official duty.
EXTRA-UTERINE
Outside of the uterus, or womb. Extra-uterine pregnancy (Med.),a condition of pregnancy in which the fetus is not in the uterus, butin the Fallopian tube or in the abdominal cavity.
EXTRAARTICULAR
Situated outside of a joint.
EXTRABRANCHIAL
Outside of the branchial arches; -- said of the cartilages thusplaced in some fishes.
EXTRACAPSULAR
Situated outside of a capsule, esp. outside the capsularligament of a joint.
EXTRACT
A solid preparation obtained by evaporating a solution of adrug, etc., or the fresh juice of a plant; -- distinguished from anabstract. See Abstract, n., 4.
EXTRACTIFORM
Having the form, appearance, or nature, of an extract.
EXTRACTOR
One who, or that which, extracts; as:(a) (Surg.) A forceps or instrument for extracting substances.(b) (Breech-loading Firearms) A device for withdrawing a cartridge orspent cartridge shell from the chamber of the barrel.
EXTRADICTIONARY
Consisting not in words, but in realities. [Obs.]Of these extradictionary and real fallacies, Aristotle and logiciansmake in number six. Sir T. Browne.
EXTRADITE
To deliver up by one government to another, as a fugitive fromjustice. See Extradition.
EXTRADITION
The surrender or delivery of an alleged criminal by one Stateor sovereignty to another having jurisdiction to try charge.
EXTRADOS
The exterior curve of an arch; esp., the upper curved face ofthe whole body of voussoirs. See Intrados.
EXTRADOTAL
Forming no part of the dowry; as, extradotal property.
EXTRAFOLIACEOUS
Away from the leaves, or inserted in a different place fromthem; as, extrafoliaceous prickles. Loudon.
EXTRAFORANEOUS
Pertaining to that which is out of doors. "Extr occupations."Cowper.
EXTRAGENEOUS
Belonging to another race or kind.
EXTRAJUDICIAL
Out of or beyond the proper authority of a court or judge;beyond jurisdiction; not legally required. "An extrajudicialopinion." Hallam.-- Ex`tra*ju*di"cial*ly, adv.
EXTRAJUDICIAL CONVEYANCE
A conveyance, as by deed, effected by the act of the partiesand not involving, as in the fine and recovery, judicial proceedings.
EXTRALIMITARY
Being beyond the limit or bounds; as, extraliminary land.Mitford.
EXTRALOGICAL
Lying outside of the domain of logic.-- Ex`tra*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
EXTRAMISSION
A sending out; emission. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXTRAMUNDANE
Beyond the material world. "An extramundane being." Bp.Warburton.
EXTRAMURAL
Outside of the walls, as of a fortified or walled city.
EXTRANEITY
State of being without or beyond a thing; foreignness. [Obs.]
EXTRANEOUS
Not belonging to, or dependent upon, a thing; without or beyonda thing; not essential or intrinsic; foreign; as, to separate goldfrom extraneous matter.Nothing is admitted extraneous from the indictment. Landor.-- Ex*tra"ne*ous*ly, adv.
EXTRAORDINARILY
In an extraordinary manner or degree.
EXTRAORDINARINESS
The quality of being extraordinary. [R.] Gov. of the Tongue.
EXTRAORDINARY
That which is extraordinary; -- used especially in the plural;as, extraordinaries excepted, there is nothing to prevent success.Their extraordinary did consist especially in the matter of prayersand devotions. Jer. Taylor.
EXTRAPAROCHIAL
Beyond the limits of a parish.-- Ex`tra*pa*ro"chi*al*ly, adv.
EXTRAPHYSICAL
Not subject to physical laws or methods.
EXTRAPROFESSIONAL
Foreign to a profession; not within the ordinary limits ofprofessional duty or business.
EXTRAPROVINCIAL
Not within of pertaining to the same province or jurisdiction.Ayliffe.
EXTRAREGULAR
Not comprehended within a rule or rules. Jer. Taylor.
EXTRASTAPEDIAL
Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which, inmany animals, projects beyond the connection with the stapes.-- n.
EXTRATERRITORIAL
Beyond the limits of a territory or particular jurisdiction;exterritorial.-- Ex`tra*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#), adv.
EXTRATERRITORIALITY
The state of being beyond the limits of a particular territory;esp. (Internat. Law),
EXTRATROPICAL
Beyond or outside of the tropics. Whewell.
EXTRAUGHT
Extracted; descended. [Obs.]Knowing whence thou art extraught Shak.
EXTRAVAGANCY
Extravagance.
EXTRAVAGANT
Certain constitutions or decretal epistles, not at firstincluded with others, but subsequently made a part of the canon law.
EXTRAVAGANTLY
In an extravagant manner; wildly; excessively; profusely.
EXTRAVAGANTNESS
The state of being extravagant or in excess; excess;extravagance.
EXTRAVAGATE
To rove. Bp. Warburton.
EXTRAVAGATION
A wandering beyond limits; excess. [Obs.] Smollett.
EXTRAVASATE
To force or let out of the proper vessels or arteries, asblood.
EXTRAVASATION
The act of forcing or letting out of its proper vessels orducts, as a fluid; effusion; as, an extravasation of blood after arupture of the vessels.
EXTRAVENATE
Let out of the veins. [Obs.] "Extravenate blood." Glanvill.
EXTRAVERSION
The act of throwing out; the state of being turned or thrownout. [Obs.] Boyle.
EXTREAT
Extraction. [Obs.] Spenser.
EXTREME
Extended or contracted as much as possible; -- said ofintervals; as, an extreme sharp second; an extreme flat forth.Extreme and mean ratio (Geom.), the relation of a line and itssegments when the line is so divided that the whole is to the greatersegment is to the less.-- Extreme distance. (Paint.) See Distance., n., 6.-- Extreme unction. See under Unction.
EXTREMELESS
Having no extremes; infinite.
EXTREMELY
In an extreme manner or state; in the utmost degree; to theutmost point; exceedingly; as, extremely hot or cold.
EXTREMIST
A supporter of extreme doctrines or practice; one who holdsextreme opinions.
EXTREMITY
One of locomotive appendages of an animal; a limb; a leg or anarm of man.
EXTRICABLE
Capable of being extricated. Sir W. Jones.
EXTRINSIC
Attached partly to an organ or limb and partly to some otherpartintrinsic.
EXTRINSICAL
Extrinsic.-- Ex*trin"sic*al*ly(#), adv.
EXTROITIVE
Seeking or going out after external objects. [R.]Their natures being almost wholly extroitive. Coleridge.
EXTRORSAL
Extrorse.
EXTRORSE
Facing outwards, or away from the axis of growth; -- said esp.of anthers occupying the outer side of the filament.
EXTROVERSION
The condition of being turned wrong side out; as, extroversionof the bladder. Dunglison.
EXTRUCT
To construct. [Obs.] Byrom.
EXTRUCTION
A building up; construction. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EXTRUCTIVE
Constructive. [Obs.] Fulke.
EXTRUCTOR
A builder. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXTRUDE
To thrust out; to force, press, or push out; to expel; to driveoff or away. "Parentheses thrown into notes or extruded to themargin." Coleridge.
EXTRUSION
The act of thrusting or pushing out; a driving out; expulsion.
EXTRUSIVE
Forced out at the surface; as, extrusive rocks; -- contrastedwith intrusive.
EXTUBERANCE
A swelling or rising; protuberance. [R.] Moxon.
EXTUBERANCY
Extuberance. [R.]
EXTUBERANT
Swollen out; protuberant. [R.] "Extuberant lips." Gayton.
EXTUBERATE
To swell out. [Obs.] Cockeram.
EXTUBERATION
Protuberance. [Obs.] Farindon.
EXTUMESCENCE
A swelling or rising. [R.] Cotgrave.
EXUBERANCE
The state of being exuberant; an overflowing quantity; acopious or excessive production or supply; superabundance; richness;as, an exuberance of joy, of fancy, or of foliage.
EXUBERANCY
, . Exuberance.
EXUBERANT
Characterized by abundance or superabundance; plenteous; rich;overflowing; copious or excessive in production; as, exuberantgoodness; an exuberant intellect; exuberant foliage. "Exuberantspring." Thomson.-- Ex*u"ber*ant*ly, adv.
EXUBERATE
To abound; to be in great abundance. [Obs.] Boyle.
EXUCCOUS
See Exsuccous. [Obs.]
EXUDATE
To exude. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
EXUDATION
The act of exuding; sweating; a discharge of humors, moisture,juice, or gum, as through pores or incisions; also, the substanceexuded.Resins, a class of proximate principles, existing in almost allplants and appearing on the external surface of many of them in theform of exudations. Am. Cyc.
EXUDE
To discharge through pores or incisions, as moisture or otherliquid matter; to give out.Our forests exude turpentine in . . . abundance. Dr. T. Dwight.
EXULCERATE
Very sore; ulcerated. [Obs.] Bacon.
EXULCERATIVE
Tending to cause ulcers; exulceratory. Holland.
EXULCERATORY
Having a tendency to form ulcers; rendering ulcerous.
EXULT
To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; torejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart."An exulting countenance." Bancroft.The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego, And leap exultinglike the bounding roe. Pope.
EXULTANT
Inclined to exult; characterized by, or expressing, exultation;rejoicing triumphantly.Break away, exultant, from every defilement. I. Tay;or.
EXULTATION
The act of exulting; lively joy at success or victory, or atany advantage gained; rapturous delight; triumph.His bosom swelled with exultation. Prescott.
EXULTING
Rejoicing triumphantly or exceedingly; exultant.-- Ex*ult"ing*ly, adv.
EXUNDATE
To overflow; to inundate. [Obs.] Bailey.
EXUNDATION
An overflow, or overflowing abundance. [R.] Ray.
EXUNGULATE
To pare off, as nails, the hoof, etc. [R.]
EXUPERABLE
Surmountable; superable. [Obs.] Johnson.
EXUPERANCE
Superiority; superfluity. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.
EXUPERANT
Surpassing; exceeding; surmounting. [Obs.]
EXUPERATE
To excel; to surmount. [Obs.]
EXUPERATION
The act of rising or coming into view. [Obs.] Baxter.
EXURGENT
Arising; coming to light. [Obs.]
EXUSCITATE
See Exsuscitate [Obs.] T. Adams.
EXUSTION
The act or operation of burning up. Bailey.
EXUTORY
An issue.
EXUVIA
n. sing. of Exuviรฆ.
EXUVIABILITY
Capability of shedding the skin periodically. Craig.
EXUVIABLE
Capable of being cast off in the form of exuviรฆ.
EXUVIAE
Cast skins, shells, or coverings of animals; any parts ofanimals which are shed or cast off, as the skins of snakes, theshells of lobsters, etc.
EXUVIAL
Of or pertaining to exuviรฆ. "Exuvial layers." "Exuvialdeposits."
EXUVIATE
To shed an old covering or condition preliminary to taking on anew one; to molt.There is reason to suppose that very old crayfish do not exuviateevery year. Huxley.
EXUVIATION
The rejecting or casting off of some part, more particularly,the outer cuticular layer, as the shells of crustaceans, skins ofsnakes, etc.; molting; ecdysis.
EY
An island. [Obs.]
EYALET
Formerly, one of the administrative divisions or provinces ofthe Ottoman Empire; -- now called a vilayet.
EYAS
A nesting or unfledged Lird; in falconry, a young hawk from thenest, not able to pr Shak J. H. Walsh
EYASMUSKET
An unfledged or young male sparrow hawk. [Obs.] Shak.
EYE
A brood; as, an eye of pheasants.
EYE OPENER
That which makes the eyes open, as startling news oroccurrence, or (U. S. Slang), a drink of liquor, esp. the first onein the morning.
EYE-MINDED
Having one's mental imagery prevailingly of the visual type;having one's thoughts and memories mainly in the form of visualimages. -- Eye"-mind`ed*ness, n.
EYEBALL
The ball or globe of the eye.
EYEBAR
A bar with an eye at one or both ends.
EYEBEAM
A glance of the eye. Shak.
EYEBOLT
A bolt which a looped head, or an opening in the head.
EYEBRIGHT
A small annual plant (Euphrasia officinalis), formerly muchused as a remedy for diseases of the eye.
EYEBROW
The brow or hairy arch above the eye. Shak.
EYECUP
A small oval porcelain or glass cup, having a rim curved to fitthe orbit of the eye. it is used in the application of liquidremedies to eyes; -- called also eyeglass.
EYED
Heaving (such or so many) eyes; -- used in composition; assharp-eyed; dull-eyed; sad-eyed; ox-eyed Juno; myriad-eyed.
EYEDROP
A tear. [Poetic] Shak.
EYEFLAP
A blinder on a horse's bridle.
EYEFUL
Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable. [Obs.]"Eyeful trophies." Chapman.
EYEGLANCE
A glance of eye.
EYEHOLE
A circular opening to recive a hook, cord, ring, or rope; aneyelet.
EYELESS
Without eyes; blind. "Eyeless rage." Shak.
EYELETEER
A small, sharp-pointed instrument used in piercing eyeletholes; a stiletto.
EYELID
The cover of the eye; that portion of movable skin with whichan animal covers or uncovers the eyeball at pleasure.
EYEN
Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
EYEPIECE
The lens, or combination of lenses, at the eye end of atelescope or other optical instrument, through which the image formedby the mirror or object glass is viewed. Collimating eyepiece. Seeunder Collimate.-- Negative, or Huyghenian, eyepiece, an eyepiece consisting of twoplano-convex lenses with their curved surfaces turned toward theobject glass, and separated from each other by about half the sum oftheir focal distances, the image viewed by the eye being formedbetween the two lenses. it was devised by Huyghens, who applied it tothe telescope. Campani applied it to the microscope, whence it issometimes called Campani's eyepiece.-- Positive eyepiece, an eyepiece consisting of two plano-convexlenses placed with their curved surfaces toward each other, andseparated by a distance somewhat less than the focal distance of theone nearest eye, the image of the object viewed being beyond bothlenses; -- called also, from the name of the inventor, Ramsden'seyepiece.-- terrestrial, or Erecting eyepiece, an eyepiece used in telescopesfor viewing terrestrial objects, consisting of three, or usuallyfour, lenses, so arranged as to present the image of the objectviewed in an erect position.
EYER
One who eyes another. Gayton.
EYEREACH
The range or reach of the eye; eyeshot. "A seat in eyereach ofhim." B. Jonson.
EYESALVE
Ointment for the eye.
EYESERVANT
A servant who attends faithfully to his duty only when watched.
EYESERVICE
Service performed only under inspection, or the eye of anemployer.Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers. Col. iii. 22.
EYESHOT
Range, reach, or glance of the eye; view; sight; as, to be outof eyeshot. Dryden.
EYESIGHT
Sight of the eye; the sense of seeing; view; observation.Josephus sets this down from his own eyesight. Bp. Wilkins.
EYESORE
Something offensive to the eye or sight; a blemish.Mordecai was an eyesore to Haman. L'Estrange.
EYESTALK
One of the movable peduncles which, in the decapod Crustacea,bear the eyes at the tip.
EYESTONE
Eye agate. See under Eye.
EYESTRING
The tendon by which the eye is moved. Shak.
EYET
An island. See Eyot.
EYETOOTH
A canine tooth of the upper jaw. See Teeth. To cut one'seyeteeth, to become acute or knowing. [Colloq.]
EYEWASH
See Eyewater.
EYEWATER
A wash or lotion for application to the eyes.
EYEWINK
A wink; a token. Shak.
EYEWINKER
An eyelash. [A child's word.]
EYEWITNESS
One who sees a thing done; one who has ocular view anything.We . . . were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 2 Pet. i. 16.
EYGHEN
Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EYGHT
An island. See Eyot.
EYLE
To ail. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EYLIAD
See Eiliad.
EYOT
A little island in a river or lake. See Ait. [Written also ait,ayt, eey, eyet, and eyght.] Blackstone.
EYR
Air. [Obs.] Chaucer.
EYRA
A wild cat (Felis eyra) ranging from southern Brazil to Texas.It is reddish yellow and about the size of the domestic cat, but witha more slender body and shorter legs.
EYRE
A journey in circuit of certain judges called justices in eyre(or in itinere).
EYREN
See Ey, an egg.
EYSELL
Same as Eisel. [Obs.] Shak.
F
.
FABACEOUS
Having the nature of a bean; like a bean.
FABELLA
One of the small sesamoid bones situated behind the condyles ofthe femur, in some mammals.
FABIAN
Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general,Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding adecisive contest. Fabian policy, a policy like that of FabiusMaximus, who, by carefully avoiding decisive contests, foiledHannibal, harassing his army by marches, countermarches, andambuscades; a policy of delays and cautions.
FABLE
To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to writeor utter what is not true. "He Fables not." Shak.Vain now the tales which fabling poets tell. Prior.He fables, yet speaks truth. M. Arnold.
FABLER
A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths orfalsehoods. Br. Hall.
FABLIAU
One of the metrical tales of the Trouvรจres, or early poets ofthe north of France.
FABRIC
To frame; to built; to construct. [Obs.] "Fabric theirmansions." J. Philips.
FABRICANT
One who fabricates; a manufacturer. Simmonds.
FABRICATOR
One who fabricates; one who constructs or makes.The fabricator of the works of Ossian. Mason.
FABRICATRESS
A woman who fabricates.
FABRILE
Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.;as, fabrile skill.
FABULIST
One who invents or writes fables.
FABULIZE
To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions. G. S. Faber.
FAC
A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, atthe commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book.Brande & C.
FACADE
The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having somearchitectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facadeunfinished, though the interior may be in use.
FACE
Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac. Chaucer.
FACED
Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced,two-faced.
FACET
A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of abone.
FACETE
Facetious; witty; humorous. [Archaic] "A facete discourse."Jer. Taylor."How to interpose" with a small, smart remark, sentiment facete, orunctuous anecdote. Prof. Wilson.-- Fa*cete"ly, adv.-- Fa*cete"ness, n.
FACETED
Having facets.
FACETIAE
Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merryconceits.
FACETTE
See Facet, n.
FACEWORK
The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall orbuilding; facing.
FACIA
See Fascia.
FACIAL
Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, ornerve.-- Fa"cial*ly, adv. Facial angle (Anat.), the angle, in a skull,included between a straight line (ab, in the illustrations), from themost prominent part of the forehead to the front efge of the upperjaw bone, and another (cd) from this point to the center of theexternal auditory opening. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic.
FACIEND
The multiplicand. See Facient,
FACIES
The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species,esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment.
FACILITATE
To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty orimpediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the executionof a task.To invite and facilitate that line of proceeding which the times callfor. I. Taylor.
FACILITATION
The act of facilitating or making easy.
FACING
The finishing of any face of a wall with material differentfrom that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or materialso used.
FACINGLY
In a facing manner or position.
FACINOROUS
Atrociously wicked. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.-- Fa*cin"o*rous*ness, n. [Obs.]
FACOUND
Speech; eloquence. [Obs.]Her facound eke full womanly and plain. Chaucer.
FACSIMILE
A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so asto give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy orlikeness. Facsimile telegraph, a telegraphic apparatus reproducingmessages in autograph.
FACTION
One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguishedby their colors) in the games of the circus.
FACTIONARY
Belonging to a faction; being a partisan; taking sides. [Obs.]Always factionary on the party of your general. Shak.
FACTIONER
One of a faction. Abp. Bancroft.
FACTIONIST
One who promotes faction.
FACTITIOUS
Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature;artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial orconventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; notnatural; as, factitious cinnabar or jewels; a factitious taste.-- Fac-ti"tious*ly, adv.-- Fac*ti"tious-ness, n.He acquires a factitious propensity, he forms an incorrigible habit,of desultory reading. De Quincey.
FACTITIVE
Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as ofa transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but producessome change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine.Sometimes the idea of activity in a verb or adjective involves in ita reference to an effect, in the way of causality, in the activevoice on the immediate objects, and in the passive voice on thesubject of such activity. This second object is called the factitiveobject. J. W. Gibbs.
FACTIVE
Making; having power to make. [Obs.] "You are . . . factive,not destructive." Bacon.
FACTO
In fact; by the act or fact. De facto. (Law) See De facto.
FACTOR
One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute;especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transactsbusiness for others in commission; a commission merchant orconsignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buyand sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession andcontrol of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker.Story. Wharton.My factor sends me word, a merchant's fled That owes me for a hundredtun of wine. Marlowe.
FACTORAGE
The allowance given to a factor, as a compensation for hisservices; -- called also a commission.
FACTORESS
A factor who is a woman. [R.]
FACTORIAL
Related to factorials.
FACTORING
The act of resolving into factors.
FACTORSHIP
The business of a factor.
FACTOTUM
A person employed to do all kinds of work or business. B.Jonson.
FACTUAL
Relating to, or containing, facts. [R.]
FACTUM
A man's own act and deed; particularly:(a) (Civil Law) Anything stated and made certain.(b) (Testamentary Law) The due execution of a will, includingeverything necessary to its validity.
FACTURE
An invoice or bill of parcels.
FACULAE
Groups of small shining spots on the surface of the sun whichare brighter than the other parts of the photosphere. They aregenerally seen in the neighborhood of the dark spots, and aresupposed to be elevated portions of the photosphere. Newcomb.
FACULAR
Of or pertaining to the faculรฆ. R. A. Proctor.
FACULTATIVE
Having the power to live under different conditions; as, afacultative parasite, a plant which is normally saprophytic, butwhich may exist wholly or in part as a parasite; -- opposed toobligate.
FACULTY
The body of person to whom are intrusted the government andinstruction of a college or university, or of one of its departments;the president, professors, and tutors in a college. Dean of faculty.See under Dean.-- Faculty of advocates. (Scot.) See under Advocate.
FACUND
Eloquent. [Archaic]
FACUNDIOUS
Eloquement; full of words. [Archaic]
FACUNDITY
Eloquence; readiness of speech. [Archaic]
FAD
A hobby ; freak; whim.-- Fad"dist, n.It is your favorite fad to draw plans. G. Eliot.
FADAISE
A vapid or meaningless remark; a commonplace; nonsense.
FADDLE
To trifle; to toy.-- v. t.
FADE
Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace. [R.] "Passages that aresomewhat fade." Jeffrey.His masculine taste gave him a sense of something fade and ludicrous.De Quincey.
FADED
That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim. "Hisfaded cheek." Milton.Where the faded moon Made a dim silver twilight. Keats.
FADEDLY
In a faded manner.A dull room fadedly furnished. Dickens.
FADELESS
Not liable to fade; unfading.
FADER
Father. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FADGE
To fit; to suit; to agree.They shall be made, spite of antipathy, to fadge together. Milton.Well, Sir, how fadges the new design Wycherley.
FADING
Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor.-- n.
FADME
A fathom. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FADY
Faded. [R.] Shenstone.
FAECAL
See Fecal.
FAECES
Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion ordistillation. [Written also feces.]
FAECULA
See Fecula.
FAERY
Fairy. [Archaic] Spenser.
FAFFLE
To stammer. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
FAG
A knot or coarse part in cloth. [Obs.]
FAGGING
Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another atan English school.
FAGOT
A bassoon. See Fagotto.
FAGOTTO
The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts forease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot.
FAHAM
The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands ofBourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinesetea.
FAHLBAND
A stratum in crystalline rock, containing metallic sulphides.Raymond.
FAHLUNITE
A hydration of iolite.
FAHRENHEIT
Conforming to the scale used by Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit inthe graduation of his thermometer; of or relating to Fahrenheit'sthermometric scale.-- n.
FAIENCE
Glazed earthenware; esp., that which is decorated in color.
FAILANCE
Fault; failure; omission. [Obs.] Bp. Fell.
FAILLE
A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy.
FAIN
With joy; gladly; -- with wold.He would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine dideat. Luke xv. 16.Fain Would I woo her, yet I dare not. Shak.
FAINEANT
Doing nothing; shiftless.-- n.
FAINEANT DEITY
A deity recognized as real but conceived as not acting in humanaffairs, hence not worshiped.
FAINT
The act of fainting, or the state of one who has fainted; aswoon. [R.] See Fainting, n.The saint, Who propped the Virgin in her faint. Sir W. Scott.
FAINTING
Syncope, or loss of consciousness owing to a sudden arrest ofthe blood supply to the brain, the face becoming pallid, therespiration feeble, and the heat's beat weak. Fainting fit, afainting or swoon; syncope. [Colloq.]
FAINTISH
Slightly faint; somewhat faint.-- Faint"ish*ness, n.
FAINTLING
Timorous; feeble-minded. [Obs.] "A fainting, silly creature."Arbuthnot.
FAINTLY
In a faint, weak, or timidmanner.
FAINTS
The impure spirit which comes over first and last in thedistillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints,and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. Thiscrude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil. Ure.
FAINTY
Feeble; languid. [R.] Dryden.
FAIR
Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth;fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, waterlines, and other lines.
FAIR CATCH
A catch made by a player on side who makes a prescribed signalthat he will not attempt to advance the ball when caught. He must notthen be interfered with.
FAIR-HAIRED
Having fair or light-colored hair.
FAIR-LEADER
A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging orfor any rope.
FAIR-MINDED
Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest.-- Fair"*mind`ed*ness, n.
FAIR-NATURED
Well-disposed. "A fair-natured prince." Ford.
FAIR-SPOKEN
Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil;courteous; plausible. "A marvelous fair-spoken man." Hooker.
FAIR-WORLD
State of prosperity. [Obs.]They think it was never fair-world with them since. Milton.
FAIRHOOD
Fairness; beauty. [Obs.] Foxe.
FAIRILY
In the manner of a fairy.Numerous as shadows haunting fairily The brain. Keats.
FAIRING
A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair. Gay.Fairing box, a box receiving savings or small sums of money. HannahMore.
FAIRISH
Tolerably fair. [Colloq.] W. D. Howells.
FAIRNESS
The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as ofthe skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc.
FAIRWAY
The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vesselsenter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept openand unobstructed for the passage of vessels. Totten. the rough.
FAIRYLAND
The imaginary land or abode of fairies.
FAIRYLIKE
Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as,fairylike music.
FAITH
By my faith; in truth; verily.
FAITHED
Having faith or a faith; honest; sincere. [Obs.] "Make thywords faithed." Shak.
FAITOUR
A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.[Obs.]Lo! faitour, there thy meed unto thee take. Spenser.
FAKE
One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it liesin a coil; a single turn or coil.
FAKER
One who fakes something, as a thief, a peddler of petty things,a workman who dresses things up, etc. [Slang]
FAKIR
An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk. [Written alsofaquir anf fakeer.]
FALANAKA
A viverrine mammal of Madagascar (Eupleres Goudotii), allied tothe civet; -- called also Falanouc.
FALCADE
The action of a horse, when he throws himself on his haunchestwo or three times, bending himself, as it were, in very quickcurvets. Harris.
FALCATION
The state of being falcate; a bend in the form of a sickle. SirT. Browne.
FALCER
One of the mandibles of a spider.
FALCIDIAN
Of or pertaining to Publius Falcidius, a Roman tribune.Falcidian law (Civil Law), a law by which a testator was obliged toleave at least a fourth of his estate to the heir. Burrill.
FALCIFORM
Having the shape of a scithe or sickle; resembling a reapinghook; as, the falciform ligatment of the liver.
FALCON
An ancient form of cannon. Chanting falcon. (Zoรถl.) See underChanting.
FALCONER
A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game;one who follows the sport of fowling with hawks. Johnson.
FALCONGENTIL
The female or young of the goshawk (Astur palumbarius).
FALCONINE
Like a falcon or hawk; belonging to the Falconid๏ฟฝ
FALCULA
A curved and sharp-pointed claw.
FALCULATE
Curved and sharppointed, like a falcula, or claw of a falcon.
FALDAGE
A privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep,in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- oftenreserved to himself by the lord of the manor. Spelman.
FALDFEE
A fee or rent paid by a tenant for the privilege of faldage onhis own ground. Blount.
FALDING
A frieze or rough-napped cloth. [Obs.]
FALDISTORY
The throne or seat of a bishop within the chancel. [Obs.]
FALDSTOOL
A folding stool, or portable seat, made to fold up in themanner of a camo stool. It was formerly placed in the choir for abishop, when he offciated in any but his own cathedral church.Fairholt.
FALERNIAN
Of or pertaining to Mount Falernus, in Italy; as,Falernianwine.
FALK
The razorbill. [Written also falc, and faik.] [Prov. Eng.]
FALLACIOUS
Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted todeceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning.-- Fal*la"cious*ly, adv. -Fal*la"cious*ness, n.
FALLACY
An argument, or apparent argument, which professes to bedecisive of the matter at issue, while in reality it is not; asophism.
FALLAX
Cavillation; a caviling. [Obs.] Cranmer.
FALLEN
Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead.Some ruined temple or fallen monument. Rogers.
FALLENCY
An exception. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
FALLER
A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, orthe device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a threadbreaks.
FALLFISH
A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); -- called also silver chub, and Shiner. The name is also applied toother allied species.
FALLIBILITY
The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to bedeceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser.
FALLIBLE
Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to bedeceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes arefallible.
FALLIBLY
In a fallible manner.
FALLING
from Fall, v. i. Falling away, Falling off, etc. See To fallaway, To fall off, etc., under Fall, v. i.-- Falling band, the plain, broad, linen collar turning down overthe doublet, worn in the early part of the 17th century.-- Falling sickness (Med.), epilepsy. Shak.-- Falling star. (Astron.) See Shooting star.-- Falling stone, a stone falling through the atmosphere; ameteorite; an aรซrolite.-- Falling tide, the ebb tide.-- Falling weather, a rainy season. [Colloq.] Bartlett.
FALLOPIAN
Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopiantubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from theovaries to the uterus.
FALLOW
Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as,fallow ground. Fallow chat, Fallow finch (Zoรถl.), a small Europeanbird, the wheatear (Saxicola รฆnanthe). See Wheatear.
FALLOW DEER
A European species of deer (Cervus dama), much smaller than thered deer. In summer both sexes are spotted with white. It is commonin England, where it is often domesticated in the parks.
FALLOWIST
One who favors the practice of fallowing land. [R.] Sinclair.
FALLOWNESS
A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouseor manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered. [U.S.]Bartlett.
FALSARY
A falsifier of evidence. [Obs.] Sheldon.
FALSE
Not in tune. False arch (Arch.), a member having the appearanceof an arch, though not of arch construction.-- False attic, an architectural erection above the main cornice,concealing a roof, but not having windows or inclosing rooms.-- False bearing, any bearing which is not directly upon a verticalsupport; thus, the weight carried by a corbel has a false bearing.-- False cadence, an imperfect or interrupted cadence.-- False conception (Med.), an abnormal conception in which a mole,or misshapen fleshy mass, is produced instead of a properly organizedfetus.-- False croup (Med.), a spasmodic affection of the larynx attendedwith the symptoms of membranous croup, but unassociated with thedeposit of a fibrinous membrane.-- False door or window (Arch.), the representation of a door orwindow, inserted to complete a series of doors or windows or to givesymmetry.-- False fire, a combustible carried by vessels of war, chiefly forsignaling, but sometimes burned for the purpose of deceiving anenemy; also, a light on shore for decoying a vessel to destruction.-- False galena. See Blende.-- False imprisonment (Law), the arrest and imprisonment of a personwithout warrant or cause, or contrary to law; or the unlawfuldetaining of a person in custody.-- False keel (Naut.), the timber below the main keel, used to serveboth as a protection and to increase the shio's lateral resistance.-- False key, a picklock.-- False leg. (Zoรถl.) See Proleg.-- False membrane (Med.), the fibrinous deposit formed in croup anddiphtheria, and resembling in appearance an animal membrane.-- False papers (Naut.), documents carried by a ship giving falserepresentations respecting her cargo, destination, ect., for thepurpose of deceiving.-- False passage (Surg.), an unnatural passage leading off from anatural canal, such as the urethra, and produced usually by theunskillful introduction of instruments.-- False personation (Law), the intentional false assumption of thename and personality of another.-- False pretenses (Law), false representations concerning past orpresent facts and events, for the purpose of defrauding another.-- False rail (Naut.), a thin piece of timber placed on top of thehead rail to strengthen it.-- False relation (Mus.), a progression in harmony, in which acertain note in a chord appears in the next chord prefixed by a flator sharp.-- False return (Law), an untrue return made to a process by theofficer to whom it was delivered for execution.-- False ribs (Anat.), the asternal rebs, of which there are fivepairs in man.-- False roof (Arch.), the space between the upper ceiling and theroof. Oxford Gloss.-- False token, a false mark or other symbol, used for fraudulentpurposes.-- False scorpion (Zoรถl.), any arachnid of the genus Chelifer. SeeBook scorpion.-- False tack (Naut.), a coming up into the wind and filling awayagain on the same tack.-- False vampire (Zoรถl.), the Vampyrus spectrum of South America,formerly erroneously supposed to have blood-sucking habits; -- calledalso vampire, and ghost vampire. The genuine blood-sucking batsbelong to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.-- False window. (Arch.) See False door, above.-- False wing. (Zoรถl.) See Alula, and Bastard wing, under Bastard.-- False works (Civil Engin.), construction works to facilitate theerection of the main work, as scaffolding, bridge centering, etc.
FALSE-FACED
Hypocritical. Shak.
FALSE-HEART
False-hearted. Shak.
FALSE-HEARTED
Hollow or unsound at the core; treacherous; deceitful;perfidious. Bacon.-- False"*heart`ed*ness, n. Bp. Stillingfleet.
FALSELY
In a false manner; erroneously; not truly; perfidiously ortreacherously. "O falsely, falsely murdered." Shak.Oppositions of science, falsely so called. 1 Tim. vi. 20.Will ye steal, murder . . . and swear falsely Jer. vii. 9.
FALSENESS
The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy;want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness;treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or asinger's notes; the falseness of a man, or of his word.
FALSER
A deceiver. [Obs.] Spenser.
FALSETTO
A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which liesabove his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice. SeeHead voice, under Voice.
FALSICRIMEN
The crime of falsifying.
FALSIFIABLE
Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted.Johnson.
FALSIFICATION
The showing an item of charge in an account to be wrong. Story.
FALSIFICATOR
A falsifier. Bp. Morton.
FALSIFIER
One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance;a liar.
FALSIFY
To avoid or defeat; to prove false, as a judgment. Blackstone.
FALSISM
That which is evidently false; an assertion or statement thefalsity of which is plainly apparent; -- opposed to truism.
FALTER
To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley.[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
FALTERING
Hesitating; trembling. "With faltering speech." Milton.-- n.
FALUNS
A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France,abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocenesubdivision.
FALWE
Fallow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FALX
A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum;esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extendinto the great fissures of the brain.
FAMBLE
To stammer. [Obs.] Nares.
FAMELESS
Without fame or renown.-- Fame"less*ly, adv.
FAMILIAR
A confidential officer employed in the service of the tribunal,especially in apprehending and imprisoning the accused.
FAMILIARIZATION
The act or process of making familiar; the result of becomingfamiliar; as, familiarization with scenes of blood.
FAMILIARLY
In a familiar manner.
FAMILIARNESS
Familiarity. [R.]
FAMILIARY
Of or pertaining to a family or household; domestic. [Obs.]Milton.
FAMILISM
The tenets of the Familists. Milton.
FAMILIST
One of afanatical Antinomian sect originating in Holland, andexisting in England about 1580, called the Family of Love, who heldthat religion consists wholly in love.
FAMILISTERY
A community in which many persons unite as in one family, andare regulated by certain communistic laws and customs.
FAMILY
A groupe of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related bycertain points of resemblance in structure or development, morecomprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer orless pronounced points of likeness. In zoรถlogy a family is lesscomprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the samething as an order. Family circle. See under Circle.-- Family man. (a) A man who has a family; esp., one who has a wifeand children living with him andd dependent upon him. (b) A man ofdomestic habits. "The Jews are generally, when married, mostexemplary family men." Mayhew.-- Family of curves or surfaces (Geom.), a group of curves orsurfaces derived from a single equation.-- In a family way, like one belonging to the family. "Why don't weask him and his ladies to come over in a family way, and dine withsome other plain country gentlefolks" Thackeray.-- In the family way, pregnant. [Colloq.]
FAMINE
General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions;destitution. "Worn with famine." Milton.There was a famine in the land. Gen. xxvi. 1.Famine fever (Med.), typhus fever.
FAMISHMENT
State of being famished.
FAMOSITY
The state or quality of being famous. [Obs.] Johnson.
FAMOUS
Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of;distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense,chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition,for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate.Famous for a scolding tongue. Shak.
FAMOUSED
Renowned. [Obs.] Shak.
FAMOUSLY
In a famous manner; in a distinguished degree; greatly;splendidly.Then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel.Shak.
FAMOUSNESS
The state of being famous.
FAMULAR
Domestic; familiar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FAMULATE
To serve. [Obs.]
FAMULIST
A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to thesizar at Cambridge. [Oxford Univ., Eng.]
FAN PALM
Any palm tree having fan-shaped or radiate leaves; as theChamรฆrops humilis of Southern Europe; the species of Sabal andThrinax in the West Indies, Florida, etc.; and especially the greattalipot tree (Corypha umbraculifera) of Ceylon and Malaya. The leavesof the latter are often eighteen feet long and fourteen wide, and areused for umbrellas, tents, and roofs. When cut up, they are used forbooks and manuscripts.
FAN-NERVED
Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; --said of certain leaves, and of the winfs of some insects.
FAN-TAILED
Having an expanded, or fan-shaped, tail; as, the fan-tailedpigeon.
FANAL
A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light.
FANATIC
Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant inopinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especiallyon religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions.But Faith, fanatic Faith, once wedded fast To some dear falsehood,hugs it to the last. T. Moore.
FANATICAL
Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic. -Fa*nat"ic*al*ly, adv.-- Fa*nat"ic*al*ness, n.
FANATICISM
Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagantnotions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy.
FANATICIZE
To cause to become a fanatic.
FANATISM
Fanaticism. [R.] Gibbon.
FANCIED
Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong.
FANCILESS
Having no fancy; without ideas or imagination. [R.]A pert or bluff important wight, Whose brain is fanciless, whoseblood is white. Armstrong.
FANCY-FREE
Free from the power of love. "In maiden meditation, fancy-free." Shak.
FANCY-SICK
Love-sick. Shak.
FANCYMONGER
A lovemonger; a whimsical lover. [Obs.] Shak.
FANCYWORK
Ornamental work with a needle or hook, as embroidery,crocheting, netting, etc.
FAND
imp. of Find. Spenser.
FANE
A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church. [Poet.]Such to this British Isle, her Christian fanes. Wordsworth.
FANEGA
A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1 DeColange.
FANFARE
A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.;also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during thechase.The fanfare announcing the arrival of the various Christian princes.Sir W. Scott.
FANFARON
A bully; a hector; a swaggerer; an empty boaster. [R.] Dryden.
FANFARONADE
A swaggering; vain boasting; ostentation; a bluster. Swift.
FANG
The tusk of an animal, by which the prey is seized and held ortorn; a long pointed tooth; esp., one of the usually erectile,venomous teeth of serpents. Also, one of the falcers of a spider.Since I am a dog, beware my fangs. Shak.
FANGED
Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also usedfiguratively.
FANGLE
Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; atrifling ornament.
FANGLED
New made; hence, gaudy; showy; vainly decorated. [Obs., exceptwith the prefix new.] See Newfangled. "Our fangled world." Shak.
FANGLENESS
Quality of being fangled. [Obs.]He them in new fangleness did pass. Spenser.
FANGLESS
Destitute of fangs or tusks. "A fangless lion." Shak.
FANGOT
A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundredweight.
FANION
A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of abrigade. [Obs.]
FANLIKE
Resembling a fan; -- specifically (Bot.), folded up like a fan,as certain leaves; plicate.
FANNEL
Same as Fanon.
FANON
A term applied to various articles, as: (a) A peculiar stripedscarf worn by the pope at mass, and by eastern bishops. (b) Amaniple. [Written also fannel, phanon, etc.]
FANTASIA
A continuous composition, not divided into what are calledmovements, or governed by the ordinary rules of musical design, butin which the author's fancy roves unrestricted by set form.
FANTASIED
Filled with fancies or imaginations. [Obs.] Shak.
FANTASM
Same as Phantasm.
FANTAST
One whose manners or ideas are fantastic. [R.] Coleridge.
FANTASTIC
A person given to fantastic dress, manners, etc.; an eccentricperson; a fop. Milton.Our fantastics, who, having a fine watch, take all ocasions to drowit out to be seen. Fuller.
FANTASTIC-ALNESS
The quality of being fantastic.
FANTASTICAL
Fanciful; unreal; whimsical; capricious; fantastic.
FANTASTICALITY
Fantastically. [Obs.]
FANTASTICALLY
In a fantastic manner.the letter A, in scarlet, fantastically embroidered with gold thread,upon her bosom. Hawthorne.
FANTASTICISM
The quality of being fantastical; fancifulness; whimsicality.Ruskin.
FANTASTICLY
Fantastically. [Obs.]
FANTASTICNESS
Fantasticalness. [Obs.]
FANTASTICO
A fantastic. [Obs.] Shak.
FANTASY
To have a fancy for; to be pleased with; to like; to fancy.[Obs.] Cavendish.Which he doth most fantasy. Robynson (More's Utopia).
FANTOCCINI
Puppets caused to perform evolutions or dramatic scenes bymeans of machinery; also, the representations in which they are used.
FANTOM
See Phantom. Fantom corn, phantom corn. Grose.
FAP
Fuddled. [Obs.] Shak.
FAQUIR
See Fakir.
FAR
A young pig, or a litter of pigs.
FAR-ABOUT
A going out of the way; a digression. [Obs.] Fuller.
FAR-OFF
Remote; as, the far-off distance. Cf. Far-off, under Far, adv.
FAR-STRETCHED
Stretched beyond ordinary limits.
FARAD
The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of acondenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt,is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the sameelectromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; thecapacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motiveforce of one volt.
FARADIC
Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguishedelectrician; -- applied especially to induced currents ofelectricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus, onaccount of Faraday's investigations of their laws.
FARADIZE
To stimulate with, or subject to, faradic, or inducted,electric currents. --Far"a*diz`er (#), n.
FARAND
See Farrand, n.
FARANDAMS
A fabrik made of silk and wool or hair. Simmonds.
FARANDOLE
A rapid dance in six-eight time in which a large number joinhands and dance in various figures, sometimes moving from room toroom. It originated in Provence.
FARANTLY
Orderly; comely; respectable. [Obs.] Halliwell.
FARCE
Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing afowl; forcemeat.
FARCEMENT
Stuffing; forcemeat. [Obs.]They spoil a good dish with . . . unsavory farcements. Feltham.
FARCICAL
Pertaining to farce; appropriated to farce; ludicrous;unnatural; unreal.They deny the characters to be farcical, because they are Gay.-- Far"ci*cal*ly, adv. -Far"ci*cal*ness, n.
FARCILITE
Pudding stone. [Obs.] Kirwan.
FARCING
Stuffing; forcemeat.
FARCTATE
Stuffed; filled solid; as, a farctate leaf, stem, or pericarp;-- opposed to tubular or hollow. [Obs.]
FARCY
A contagious disease of horses, associated with painfululcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of thesame nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, andfarcimen.
FARD
Paint used on the face. [Obs.] "Painted with French fard." J.Whitaker.
FARDAGE
See Dunnage.
FARDEL
A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden. [Obs.] Shak.A fardel of never-ending misery and suspense. Marryat.
FARDING-BAG
The upper stomach of a cow, or other ruminant animal; therumen.
FARDINGDALE
A farthingale. [Obs.]
FARDINGDEAL
The fourth part of an acre of land. [Obs.] [Written alsofarding dale, fardingale, etc.]
FAREN
p. p. of Fare, v. i. Chaucer.
FAREWELL
Go well; good-by; adieu; -- originally applied to a persondeparting, but by custom now applied both to those who depart andthose who remain. It is often separated by the pronoun; as, fare youwell; and is sometimes used as an expression of separation only; as,farewell the year; farewell, ye sweet groves; that is, I bid youfarewell.So farewell hope, and with hope, farewell fear. Milton.Fare thee well! and if forever, Still forever fare thee well. Byron.
FARFET
Farfetched. [Obs.]York with his farfet policy. Shak.
FARFETCH
To bring from far; to seek out studiously. [Obs.]To farfetch the name of Tartar from a Hebrew word. Fuller.
FARINA
Pollen. [R.] Craig.
FARINOSE
Civered with a sort of white, mealy powder, as the leaves ofsome poplars, and the body of certain insects; mealy.
FARL
Same as Furl. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
FARLIE
An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly. [Obs. orProv. Eng.] Drayton.
FARM
A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm,the silk farm.Whereas G. H. held the farm of sugars upon a rent of 10,000 marks perannum. State Trials (1196).
FARMABLE
Capable of being farmed.
FARMER
One who farms; as:(a) One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leasedground; a tenant. Smart.(b) One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivatesa farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman.(c) One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, tocollect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, afarmer of the revenues.(d) (Mining) The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and copeof the crown. Farmer-general Etym: [F. fermier-general], one to whomthe right of levying certain taxes, in a particular district, wasfarmed out, under the former French monarchy, for a given sum paiddown.-- Farmers' satin, a light material of cotton and worsted, used forcoat linings. McElrath.-- The king's farmer (O. Eng. Law), one to whom the collection of aroyal revenue was farmed out. Burrill.
FARMERESS
A woman who farms.
FARMERSHIP
Skill in farming.
FARMERY
The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm; ahomestead. [Eng.]
FARMHOUSE
A dwelling house on a farm; a farmer's residence.
FARMING
Pertaining to agriculture; devoted to, adapted to, or engagedin, farming; as, farming tools; farming land; a farming community.
FARMOST
Most distant; farthest.A spacious cave within its farmost part. Dryden.
FARMSTEAD
A farm with the building upon it; a homestead on a farm.Tennyson.With its pleasant groves and farmsteads. Carlyle.
FARMSTEADING
A farmstead. [Scot.] Black.
FARMYARD
The yard or inclosure attached to a barn, or the space inclosedby the farm buildings.
FARNESS
The state of being far off; distance; remoteness. [R.] Grew.
FARO
A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players playagainst the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order inwhich the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack. Faro bank, thecapital which the proprietor of a farotable ventures in the game;also, the place where a game of faro is played. Hoyle.
FAROESE
An inhabitant, or, collectively, inhabitants, of the Faroeislands.
FARRAGINOUS
Formed of various materials; mixed; as, a farraginous mountain.[R.] Kirwan.AA farraginous concurrence of all conditions, tempers, sexes, andages. Sir T. Browne.
FARRAGO
A mass ccomposed of various materials confusedly mixed; amedley; a mixture.A confounded farrago of doubts, fears, hopes, wishes, and all theflimsy furniture of a country miss's brain. Sheridan.
FARRAND
Manner; custom; fashion; humor. [Prov. Eng.] [Written alsofarand.] Grose.
FARREATION
Same as Confarreation.
FARRIER
Defn:
FARROW
A little of pigs. Shak.
FARRY
A farrow. [Obs.] Perry.
FARSE
An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latinservice in the vernacular; -- common in English before theReformation.
FARSIGHTED
Hypermetropic.
FARSIGHTEDNESS
Hypermetropia.
FARTHER
To help onward. [R.] See Further.
FARTHERANCE
See Furtherence.
FARTHERMORE
See Furthermore.
FARTHERMOST
Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest.
FARTHEST
Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree.  See Furthest.
FARTHINGALE
A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elasticmaterial, used to extend the petticoat.We'll revel it as bravely as the best, . . . With ruffs and cuffs,and farthingales and things. Shak.
FASCES
A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the bladeprojecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of theirauthority.
FASCET
A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc.,to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into themouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- calles alsopontee and punty.
FASCIA
A flat member of an order or building, like a flat band orbroad fillet; especially, one of the three bands which make up thearchitrave, in the Ionic order. See Illust. of Column.
FASCIAL
Relating to a fascia.
FASCIATION
The act or manner of binding up; bandage; also, the conditionof being fasciated.
FASCICLE
A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicleof fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots.
FASCICLED
Growing in a bundle, tuft, or close cluster; as, the fascicledleaves of the pine or larch; the fascicled roots of the dahlia;fascicled muscle fibers; fascicled tufts of hair.
FASCICULAR
Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root.
FASCICULARLY
In a fascicled manner. Kirwan.
FASCICULE
A small bunch or bundle; a fascicle; as, a fascicule of fibers,hairs, or spines.
FASCINE
A cylindrical bundle of small sticks of wood, bound together,used in raising batteries, filling ditches, strengthening ramparts,and making parapets; also in revetments for river banks, and in matsfor dams, jetties, etc.
FASCINOUS
Caused or acting by witchcraft. [Obs.] "Fascinous diseases."Harvey.
FASCIOLA
A band of gray matter bordering the fimbria in the brain; thedentate convolution. Wilder.
FASCIOLE
A band of minute tubercles, bearing modified spines, on theshells of spatangoid sea urchins. See Spatangoidea.
FASH
To vex; to tease; to trouble. [Scot.]
FASHION-MONGER
One who studies the fashions; a fop; a dandy. Marston.
FASHION-MONGERING
Behaving like a fashion-monger. [R.] Shak.
FASHIONABLE
A person who conforms to the fashions; -- used chiefly in theplural.
FASHIONABLENESS
State of being fashionable.
FASHIONABLY
In a fashionable manner.
FASHIONED
Having a certain style or fashion; as old-fashioned; new-fashioned.
FASHIONER
One who fashions, forms, ar gives shape to anything. [R.]The fashioner had accomplished his task, and the dresses were broughthome. Sir W. Scott.
FASHIONIST
An obsequious follower of the modes and fashions. [R.] Fuller.
FASHIONLESS
Having no fashion.
FASSAITE
A variety of pyroxene, from the valley of Fassa, in the Tyrol.
FAST
That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooringrope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow,head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier aroundwhich hawsers are passed in mooring.
FAST-HANDED
Close-handed; close-fisted; covetous; avaricious. [Obs.] Bacon.
FASTEN
To fix one's self; to take firm hold; to clinch; to cling.A horse leech will hardly fasten on a fish. Sir T. Browne.
FASTENER
One who, or that which, makes fast or firm.
FASTENING
Anything that binds and makes fast, as a lock, catch, bolt,bar, buckle, etc.
FASTER
One who abstains from food.
FASTIDIOSITY
Fastidiousness; squeamishness. [Obs.] Swift.
FASTIDIOUS
Difficult to please; delicate to fault; suited with difficulty;squeamish; as, a fastidious mind or ear; a fastidious appetite.Proud youth ! fastidious of the lower world. Young.
FASTISH
Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated. [Colloq.] Thackeray.
FASTLY
Firmly; surely.
FASTUOUS
Proud; haughty; disdainful. [Obs.] Barrow. Fas"tu*ous*ness, n.[Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
FAT
Of a character which enables the compositor to make largewages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc.;as, a fat take; a fat page. Fat lute, a mixture of pipe clay and oilfor filling joints.
FAT-BRAINED
Dull of apprehension.
FAT-KIDNEYED
Gross; lubberly.Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal ! Shak.
FAT-WITTED
Dull; stupid. Shak.
FATA MORGANA
A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted,distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly atthe Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily.
FATALISM
The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that theytake place by inevitable necessity.
FATALIST
One who maintains that all things happen by inevitablenecessity.
FATALISTIC
Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism.
FATALNESS
, . Quality of being fatal. Johnson.
FATBACK
The menhaden.
FATE
The three goddesses, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, sometimescalled the Destinies, or Parcรฆwho were supposed to determine thecourse of human life. They are represented, one as holding thedistaff, a second as spinning, and the third as cutting off thethread.
FATEFUL
Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate. "The fatefulsteel." J. Barlow.
FATHER LONGLEGS
See Daddy longlegs, 2.
FATHER-IN-LAW
The father of one's husband or wife; -- correlative to son-in-law and daughter-in-law.
FATHER-LASHER
A European marine fish (Cottus bubalis), allied to the sculpin;-- called also lucky proach.
FATHERHOOD
The state of being a father; the character or authority of afather; paternity.
FATHERLAND
One's native land; the native land of one's fathers orancestors.
FATHERLESSNESS
The state of being without a father.
FATHERLINESS
The qualities of a father; parantal kindness, care, etc.
FATHERSHIP
The state of being a father; fatherhood; paternity.
FATHOMABLE
Capable of being fathomed.
FATHOMER
One who fathoms.
FATIDICAL
Having power to foretell future events; prophetic; fatiloquent;as, the fatidical oak. [R.] Howell.-- Fa*tid"i*cal*ly, adv.
FATIFEROUS
Fate-bringing; deadly; mortal; destructive. [R.] Johnson.
FATIGABLE
Easily tired. [Obs.] Bailey.
FATIGATE
Wearied; tired; fatigued. [Obs.]Requickened what in flesh was fatigate. Shak.
FATIGATION
Weariness. [Obs.] W. Montaqu.
FATIGUE
To weary with labor or any bodily or mental exertion; to harasswith toil; to exhaust the strength or endurance of; to tire.
FATILOQUENT
Prophetic; fatidical. [Obs.] Blount.
FATILOQUIST
A fortune teller.
FATISCENCE
A gaping or opening; state of being chinky, or havingapertures. Kirwan.
FATLING
A calf, lamb, kid, or other young animal fattened forslaughter; a fat animal; -- said of such animals as are used forfood.He sacrificed oxen and fatlings. 2 Sam. vi. 13.
FATLY
Grossly; greasily.
FATNER
One who fattens. [R.] See Fattener. Arbuthnit.
FATTEN
To grow fat or corpulent; to grow plump, thick, or fleshy; tobe pampered.And villains fatten with the brave man's labor. Otway.
FATTENER
One who, or that which, fattens; that which gives fatness orfertility.
FATTINESS
State or quality of being fatty.
FATTISH
Somewhat fat; inclined to fatness.Coleridge, a puffy, anxious, obstructed-looking, fattish old man.Carlyle.
FATTY
Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross;as, a fatty substance. Fatty acid (Chem.), any one of the paraffinseries of monocarbonic acids, as formic acid, acetic, etc.; -- socalled because the higher members, as stearic and palmitic acids,occur in the natural fats, and are themselves fatlike substances.-- Fatty clays. See under Clay.-- Fatty degeneration (Med.), a diseased condition, in which the oilglobules, naturally present in certain organs, are so multiplied asgradually to destroy and replace the efficient parts of these organs.-- Fatty heart, Fatty liver, etc. (Med.), a heart, liver, etc.,which have been the subjects of fatty degeneration or infiltration.-- Fatty infiltration (Med.), a condition in which there is anexcessive accumulation of fat in an organ, without destruction of anyessential parts of the latter.-- Fatty tumor (Med.), a tumor consisting of fatty or adiposetissue; lipoma.
FATUITOUS
Stupid; fatuous.
FATUITY
Weakness or imbecility of mind; stupidity.Those many forms of popular fatuity. I Taylor.
FAUBOURG
A suburb of French city; also, a district now within a city,but formerly without its walls.
FAUCAL
Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial;esp., (Phon.) produced in the fauces, as certain deep guttural soundsfound in the Semitic and some other languages.Ayin is the most difficult of the faucals. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
FAUCES
The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situatedbetween the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called alsothe isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage twomembranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose thetonsils.
FAUCHION
See Falchion. [Obs.]
FAUCIAL
Pertaining to the fauces; pharyngeal.
FAUGH
An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.
FAULCHION
See Falchion.
FAULCON
See Falcon.
FAULD
The arch over the dam of a blast furnace; the tymp arch.
FAULE
A fall or falling band. [Obs.]These laces, ribbons, and these faules. Herrick.
FAULT
A lost scent; act of losing the scent.Ceasing their clamorous cry till they have singled, With much ado,the cold fault cleary out. Shak.
FAULT-FINDER
One who makes a practice off discovering others' faults andcensuring them; a scold.
FAULT-FINDING
The act of finding fault or blaming; -- used derogatively. AlsoAdj.
FAULTER
One who commits a fault. [Obs.]Behold the faulter here in sight. Fairfax.
FAULTFUL
Full of faults or sins. Shak.
FAULTILY
In a faulty manner.
FAULTINESS
Quality or state of being faulty.Round, even to faultiness. Shak.
FAULTING
The state or condition of being faulted; the process by which afault is produced.
FAULTLESS
Without fault; not defective or imperfect; free from blemish;free from incorrectness, vice, or offense; perfect; as, a faultlesspoem.Whoever thinks a faultless piece to see, Thinks what ne'er was, noris, nor e'er shall be. Pope.
FAUN
A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr.The fauns are usually represented as half goat and half man.Satyr or Faun, or Sylvan. Milton.
FAUNA
The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna ofAmerica; fossil fauna; recent fauna.
FAUNAL
Relating to fauna.
FAUNIST
One who describes the fauna of country; a naturalist. GilbertWhite.
FAUNUS
See Faun.
FAUSEN
A young eel. [Prov. Eng.]
FAUSSE-BRAYE
A second raampart, exterior to, and parallel to, the mainrampart, and considerably below its level.
FAUTOR
A favorer; a patron; one who gives countenance or support; anabettor. [Obs.]The king and the fautors of his proceedings. Latimer.
FAUTRESS
A patroness. [Obs.] Chapman.
FAUVETTE
A small singing bird, as the nightingale and warblers.
FAUX
See Fauces.
FAUX PAS
A false step; a mistake or wrong measure.
FAVAGINOUS
Formed like, or resembling, a honeycomb.
FAVAS
See Favus, n., 2. Fairholt.
FAVEL
Yellow; fal [Obs.] Wright.
FAVELLA
A group of spores arranged without order and covered with athin gelatinous envelope, as in certain delicate red algรฆ.
FAVEOLATE
Honeycomb; having cavities or cells, somewhat resembling thoseof a honeycomb; alveolate; favose.
FAVIER EXPLOSIVE
Any of several explosive mixtures, chiefly of ammonium nitrateand a nitrate derivative of naphthalene. They are stable, but requireprotection from moisture. As prepared it is a compressed cylinder ofthe explosive, filled with loose powder of the same composition, allinclosed in waterproof wrappers. It is used for mining.
FAVILLOUS
Of or pertaining to ashes. [Obs.]Light and favollous particles. Sir T. Browne.
FAVONIAN
Pertaining to the west wind; soft; mild; gentle.
FAVOR
Partiality; bias. Bouvier.
FAVOREDLY
In a favored or a favorable manner; favorably. [Obs.] Deut.xvii. 1. Arscham.
FAVOREDNESS
Appearance. [Obs.]
FAVORER
One who favors; one who regards with kindness or friendship; awell-wisher; one who assists or promotes success or prosperity.[Written also favourer.]And come to us as favorers, not as foes. Shak.
FAVORESS
A woman who favors or gives countenance. [Written alsofovouress.]
FAVORING
That favors.-- Fa"vor*ing*ly, adv.
FAVORITE
Short curls dangling over the temples; -- fashionable in thereign of Charles II. [Obs.] Farquhar.
FAVORITISM
The disposition to favor and promote the interest of one personor family, or of one class of men, to the neglect of others havingequal claims; partiality.A spirit of favoritism to the Bank of the United States. A. Hamilton.
FAVOSE
Honeycombed. See Faveolate.
FAVOSITE
Like or pertaining to the genus Favosites.
FAVOSITES
A genus of fossil corals abundant in the Silurian and Devonianrocks, having polygonal cells with perforated walls.
FAVUS
A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite.
FAWE
Fain; glad; delighted. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FAWKNER
A falconer. [Obs.] Donne.
FAWN
A young deer; a buck or doe of the first year. See Buck.
FAWN-COLORED
Of the color of a fawn; light yellowish brown.
FAWNER
One who fawns; a sycophant.
FAWNINGLY
In a fawning manner.
FAXED
Hairy. [Obs.] amden.
FAY
A fairy; an elf. "Yellow-skirted fays." Milton.
FAYALITE
A black, greenish, or brownish mineral of the chrysolite group.It is a silicate of iron.
FAYENCE
See Fa.
FAYTOUR
See Faitour. [Obs.] Spenser.
FAZE
See Feeze.
FAZZOLET
A handkerchief. [R.] percival.
FEABERRY
A gooseberry. [Prov. Eng.] Prior.
FEAGUE
To beat or whip; to drive. [Obs.] Otway.
FEAL
Faithful; loyal. [Obs.] Wright.
FEAR
A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion. [Obs.] Spenser.
FEARER
One who fars. Sir P. Sidney.
FEARFULLY
In a fearful manner.
FEARFULNESS
The state of being fearful.
FEARLESS
Free from fear.
FEARSOME
. Easily frightened; timid; timorous. "A silly fearsome thing."B. Taylor
FEASIBILITY
The quality of being feasible; practicability; also, that whichis feasible; as, before we adopt a plan, let us consider itsfeasibility.Men often swallow falsities for truths, dubiosities for certainties,possibilities for feasibilities. Sir T. Browne.
FEASTFUL
Festive; festal; joyful; sumptuous; luxurious. "Feastful days."Milton.-- Feast"ful*ly, adv.
FEAT
To form; to fashion. [Obs.]To the more mature, A glass that feated them. Shak.
FEAT-BODIED
Having a feat or trim body. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
FEATEOUS
Dexterous; neat. [Obs.] Johnson.-- Feat"e*ous*ly, adv.
FEATHER
A longitudinal strip projecting as a fin from an object, tostrengthen it, or to enter a channel in another object and therebyprevent displacement sidwise but permit motion lengthwise; a spline.
FEATHER-BRAINED
Giddy; frivolous; feather-headed. [Colloq.]
FEATHER-EDGE
The thin, new growth around the edge of a shell, of an oyster.
FEATHER-EDGED
Having a feather-edge; also, having one edge thinner than theother, as a board; -- in the United States, said only of stuff oneedge of which is made as thin as practicable.
FEATHER-FEW
Feverfew.
FEATHER-FOIL
An aquatic plant (Hottonia palustris), having finely dividedleaves.
FEATHER-HEAD
A frivolous or featherbrained person. [Colloq.] H. James.
FEATHER-HEADED
Giddy; frivolous; foolish. [Colloq.] G. Eliot.
FEATHER-HEELED
Light-heeled; gay; frisky; frolicsome. [Colloq.]
FEATHER-PATED
Feather-headed; frivolous. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.
FEATHER-VEINED
Having the veins (of a leaf) diverging from the two sides of amidrib.
FEATHERBONE
A substitute for whalebone, made from the quills of geese andturkeys.
FEATHERED
Having a fringe of feathers, as the legs of certian birds; orof hairs, as the legs of a setter dog.
FEATHERINESS
The state or condition of being feathery.
FEATHERING
Same as Foliation.
FEATHERLESS
Destitute of feathers.
FEATHERLY
Like feathers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FEATHERNESS
The state or condition of being feathery.
FEATHERSTITCH
A kind of embroidery stitch producing a branching zigzag line.
FEATHERY
Pertaining to, or resembling, feathers; covered with, or aswith, feathers; as, feathery spray or snow. Milton.Ye feathery people of mid air. Barry Cornwall.
FEATLY
Neatly; dexterously; nimbly. [Archaic]Foot featly here and there. Shak.
FEATNESS
Skill; adroitness. [Archaic] Johnson.
FEATURELESS
Having no distinct or distinctive features.
FEATURELY
Having features; showing marked peculiarities; handsome. [R.]Featurely warriors of Christian chivalry. Coleridge.
FEAZE
To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope. Johnson.
FEAZINGS
The unlaid or ragged end of a rope. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
FEBRICITATE
To have a fever. [Obs.] Bailey.
FEBRICULOSE
Somewhat feverish. [Obs.] Johnson.
FEBRIFACIENT
Febrific. Dunglison.-- n.
FEBRIFEROUS
Causing fever; as, a febriferous locality.
FEBRIFIC
Producing fever. Dunglison.
FEBRIFUGAL
Having the quality of mitigating or curing fever. Boyle.
FEBRIFUGE
A medicine serving to mitigate or remove fever.-- a.
FEBRILE
Pertaining to fever; indicating fever, or derived from it; as,febrile symptoms; febrile action. Dunglison.
FEBRUARY
The second month in the year, said to have been introduced intothe Roman calendar by Numa. In common years this month containstwenty-eight days; in the bissextile, or leap year, it has twenty-nine days.
FEBRUATION
Purification; a sacrifice. [Obs.] Spenser.
FECAL
relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; fรฆcal.
FECCHE
To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FECES
dregs; sediment; excrement. See Fรces.
FECIAL
Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties ofpeace; as, fecial law. Kent.
FECIFORK
The anal fork on which the larvรฆ of certain insects carry theirfรฆces.
FECKLESS
Spiritless; weak; worthless. [Scot]
FECKLESSNESS
absence of merit.[WordNet 1.5]
FECKS
A corruption of the word faith. Shak.
FECULA
Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breakingdown the texture, washing with water, and subsidence. Especially:(a) The nutritious part of wheat; starch or farina; -- called alsoamylaceous fecula. (b) The green matter of plants; chlorophyll.
FECULENCY
Feculence.
FECULENT
Foul with extraneous or impure substances; abounding withsediment or excrementitious matter; muddy; thick; turbid.Both his hands most filthy feculent. Spenser.
FECUND
Fruitful in children; prolific. Graunt.
FECUNDATE
To render fruitful or prolific; to impregnate; as, in flowersthe pollen fecundates the ovum through the stigma.
FECUNDATION
The act by which, either in animals or plants, materialprepared by the generative organs the female organism is brought incontact with matter from the organs of the male, so that a neworganism results; impregnation; fertilization.
FECUNDIFY
To make fruitful; to fecundate. Johnson.
FED
imp. & p. p. of Feed.
FEDARY
A feodary. [Obs.] Shak.
FEDERAL
See Federalist.
FEDERALISM
the principles of Federalists or of federal union.
FEDERALIST
An advocate of confederation; specifically (Amer. Hist.), afriend of the Constitution of the United States at its formation andadoption; a member of the political party which favored theadministration of president Washington.
FEDERALIZE
To unite in compact, as different States; to confederate forpolitical purposes; to unite by or under the Federal Constitution.Barlow.
FEDERARY
A partner; a confederate; an accomplice. [Obs.] hak.
FEDERATE
United by compact, as sovereignties, states, or nations; joinedin confederacy; leagued; confederate; as, federate nations.
FEDERATIVE
Uniting in a league; forming a confederacy; federal. "Afederative society." Burke.
FEDITY
Turpitude; vileness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
FEE
A right to the use of a superior's land, as a stipend forservices to be performed; also, the land so held; a fief.
FEE-FAW-FUM
A nonsensical exclamation attributed to giants and ogres;hence, any expression calculated to impose upon the timid andignorant. "Impudent fee-faw-fums." J. H. Newman.
FEEBLE
To make feble; to enfeeble. [Obs.]Shall that victorious hand be feebled here Shak.
FEEBLE-MINDED
Weak in intellectual power; wanting firmness or constancy;irresolute; vacilating; imbecile. "comfort the feeble-minded." 1Thess. v. 14.-- Fee"ble-mind"ed*ness, n.
FEEBLENESS
The quality or condition of being feeble; debility; infirmity.That shakes for age and feebleness. Shak.
FEEBLY
In a feeble manner.The restored church . . . contended feebly, and with half a heart.Macaulay.
FEEDER
An auxiliary part of a machine which supplies or leads alongthe material operated upon.
FEEJEE
See Fijian.
FEELER
One of the sense organs or certain animals (as insects), whichare used in testing objects by touch and in searching for food; anantenna; a palp.Insects . . . perpetually feeling and searching before them withtheir feelers or antennรฆ. Derham.
FEELINGLY
In a feeling manner; pathetically; sympathetically.
FEERE
A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere. [Obs.]
FEESE
the short run before a leap. [Obs.] Nares.
FEET
See Foot.
FEETLESS
Destitute of feet; as, feetless birds.
FEEZE
Fretful excitement. [Obs.] See Feaze.
FEHLING
See Fehling's solution, under Solution.
FEHMIC
See Vehmic.
FEIGNED
Not real or genuine; pretended; counterfeit; insincere; false."A feigned friend." Shak.Give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips. Ps.xvii. 1.-- Feign"ed*ly, adv.-- Feign"ed*ness, n.Her treacherous sister Judah hath not turned unto me with her wholeheart, but feignedly. Jer. iii. 10.Feigned issue (Law), an issue produced in a pretended action betweentwo parties for the purpose of trying before a jury a question offact which it becomes necessary to settle in the progress of a cause.Burill. Bouvier.
FEIGNER
One who feigns or pretends.
FEIGNING
That feigns; insincere; not genuine; false.-- Feign"ing*ly, adv.
FEINE
To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FEINT
Feigned; counterfeit. [Obs.]Dressed up into any feint appearance of it. Locke.
FEITSUI
The Chinese name for a highly prized variety of pale greenjade. See Jade.
FEIZE
See Feeze, v. t.
FELANDERS
See Filanders.
FELE
Many. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FELICIFY
To make happy; to felicitate. [Obs.] Quarles.
FELICITATE
Made very happy. [Archaic]I am alone felicitate In your dear highness' love. Shak.
FELICITATION
The act of felicitating; a wishing of joy or happiness;congratulation.
FELICITOUS
Characterized by felicity; happy; prosperous; delightful;skilful; successful; happily applied or expressed; appropriate.Felicitous words and images. M. Arnold.-- Fe*lic"i*tous*ly, adv.-- Fe*lic"i*tous*ness, n.
FELINE
Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidรฆ;as, the feline race; feline voracity.
FELIS
A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, thelion, tiger, panther, and similar animals.
FELL
imp. of Fall.
FELLABLE
Fit to be felled.
FELLAH
A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians,Syrians, etc. W. M. Thomson.
FELLER
One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machinefor felling trees.
FELLFARE
The fieldfare.
FELLIFLUOUS
Flowing with gall. [R.] Johnson.
FELLINIC
Of, relating to, or derived from, bile or gall; as, fellinicacid.
FELLMONGER
A dealer in fells or sheepskins, who separates the wool fromthe pelts.
FELLNESS
The quality or state of being fell or cruel; fierce barbarity.Spenser.
FELLOE
See Felly.
FELLON
Variant of Felon. [Obs.]Those two were foes the fellonest on ground. Spenser.
FELLOW
To suit with; to pair with; to match. [Obs.] Shak.
FELLOW-COMMONER
A student at Cambridge University, England, who commons, ordines, at the Fellow's table.
FELLOW-CREATURE
One of the same race or kind; one made by the same Creator.Reason, by which we are raised above our fellow-creatures, thebrutes. I. Watts.
FELLOWFEEL
To share through sympathy; to participate in. [R.] D. Rodgers.
FELLOWLESS
Without fellow or equal; peerless.Whose well-built walls are rare and fellowless. Chapman.
FELLOWLIKE
Like a companion; companionable; on equal terms; sympathetic.[Obs.] Udall.
FELLOWLY
Fellowlike. [Obs.] Shak.
FELLOWSHIP
(Eccl.) To acknowledge as of good standing, or in communionaccording to standards of faith and practice; to admit to Christianfellowship.
FELLY
, adv. In a fell or cruel manner; fiercely; barbarously;savagely. Spenser.
FELO-DE-SE
One who deliberately puts an end to his own existence, or loseshis life while engaged in the commission of an unlawful or maliciousact; a suicide. Burrill.
FELON
A person who has committed a felony.
FELONIOUS
Having the quality of felony; malignant; malicious; villainous;traitorous; perfidious; in a legal sense, done with intent to commita crime; as, felonious homicide.O thievish Night, Why should'st thou, but for some felonious end, Inthy dark lantern thus close up the stars Milton.-- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ly, adv.-- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ness, n.
FELONOUS
Wicked; felonious. [Obs.] Spenser.
FELONRY
A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of apenal colony. Howitt.
FELONWORT
The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). SeeBittersweet.
FELONY
An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee byforfeiture. Burrill.
FELSITE
A finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consistingessentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz.
FELSITIC
relating to, composed of, or containing, felsite.
FELSPATHIC
See Feldspathic.
FELSTONE
See Felsite.
FELT
imp. & p. p. or a. from Feel.
FELT GRAIN
, the grain of timber which is transverse to the annular ringsor plates; the direction of the medullary rays in oak and some othertimber. Knight.
FELTER
To clot or mat together like felt.His feltered locks that on his bosom fell. Fairfax.
FELTRY
See Felt, n. [Obs.]
FELUCCA
A small, swift-sailing vessel, propelled by oars and lateensails, -- once common in the Mediterranean.
FELWORT
A European herb (Swertia perennis) of the Gentian family.
FEMALE
A plant which produces only that kind of reproductive organswhich are capable of developing into fruit after impregnation orfertilization; a pistillate plant.
FEMALE FERN
a common species of fern with large decompound fronds(Asplenium Filixfรฆmina), growing in many countries; lady fern.
FEMALE RHYMES
double rhymes, or rhymes (called in French feminine rhymesbecause they end in e weak, or feminine) in which two syllables, anaccented and an unaccented one, correspond at the end of each line.
FEMALIST
A gallant. [Obs.]Courting her smoothly like a femalist. Marston.
FEMALIZE
To make, or to describe as, female or feminine. Shaftesbury.
FEME
A woman. Burrill. Feme covert (Law), a married woman. SeeCovert, a., 3.-- Feme sole (Law), a single or unmarried woman; a woman who hasnever been married, or who has been divorced, or whose husband isdead.-- Feme sole trader or merchant (Eng. Law), a married woman, by thecustom of London, engages in business on her own account, inpendentlyof her husband.
FEMERAL
See Femerell.
FEMERELL
A lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, forventilation or escape of smoke.
FEMINAL
Feminine. [Obs.] West.
FEMINALITY
Feminity.
FEMINATE
Feminine. [Obs.]
FEMINEITY
Womanliness; femininity. C. Read
FEMININE
Any one of those words which are the appellations of females,or which have the terminations usually found in such words; as,actress, songstress, abbess, executrix.There are but few true feminines in English. Latham.
FEMININE RHYME
See Female rhyme, under Female, a.
FEMININELY
In a feminine manner. Byron.
FEMININENESS
The quality of being feminine; womanliness; womanishness.
FEMINITY
Womanliness; femininity. [Obs.] "Trained up in true feminity."Spenser.
FEMINIZATION
The act of feminizing, or the state of being feminized.
FEMINIZE
To make womanish or effeminate. Dr. H. More.
FEMINYE
The people called Amazons. [Obs.] "[The reign of] feminye."Chaucer.
FEMME
A woman. See Feme, n. Femme de chambre. Etym: [F.] A lady'smaid; a chambermaid.
FEMORAL
Pertaining to the femur or thigh; as, the femoral artery."Femoral habiliments." Sir W. Scott.
FEN
Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water,but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggyland; moor; marsh.'Mid reedy fens wide spread. Wordsworth.
FEN CRICKET
The mole cricket. [Prov. Eng.]
FEN-SUCKED
Sucked out of marches. "Fen-sucked fogs." Shak.
FENCE
A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumblergates in locking and unlocking.
FENCE MONTH
the month in which female deer are fawning, when hunting isprohibited. Bullokar.-- Fence roof, a covering for defense. "They fitted their shieldsclose to one another in manner of a fence roof." Holland. Fence time,the breeding time of fish or game, when they should not be killed.-- Rail fence, a fence made of rails, sometimes supported by posts.-- Ring fence, a fence which encircles a large area, or a wholeestate, within one inclosure.-- Worm fence, a zigzag fence composed of rails crossing one anotherat their ends; -- called also snake fence, or Virginia rail fence.-- To be on the fence, to be undecided or uncommitted in respect totwo opposing parties or policies. [Colloq.]
FENCEFUL
Affording defense; defensive. [Obs.] Congreve.
FENCELESS
Without a fence; uninclosed; open; unguarded; defenseless.Milton.
FENCER
One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencingwith sword or foil.As blunt as the fencer's foils. Shak.
FENCI-BLE
Capable of being defended, or of making or affording defense.[Obs.]No fort so fencible, nor walls so strong. Spenser.
FENCIBLE
A soldier enlisted for home service only; -- usually in the pl.
FEND
A fiend. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FENDER
One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm;as:(a) A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escapingto the floor.(b) Anything serving as a cushion to lessen the shock when a vesselcomes in contact with another vessel or a wharf.(c) A screen to protect a carriage from mud thrown off the wheels:also, a splashboard.(d) Anything set up to protect an exposed angle, as of a house, fromdamage by carriage wheels.
FENDLICHE
Fiendlike. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FENERATE
To put money to usury; to lend on interest. [Obs.] Cockeram.
FENERATION
The act of fenerating; interest. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FENES-TELLA
Any small windowlike opening or recess, esp. one to show therelics within an altar, or the like.
FENESTRA
A small opening; esp., one of the apertures, closed bymembranes, between the tympanum and internal ear.
FENESTRAL
Pertaining to a window or to windows.
FENESTRATE
Having transparent spots, as the wings of certain butterflies.
FENESTRATED
Having windows; characterized by windows.
FENESTRATION
The arrangement and proportioning of windows; -- used by modernwriters for the decorating of an architectural composition by meansof the window (and door) openings, their ornaments, and proportions.
FENESTRULE
One of the openings in a fenestrated structure.
FENG-HWANG
A pheasantlike bird of rich plumage and graceful form andmovement, fabled to appear in the land on the accession of a sage tothe throne, or when right principles are about to prevail. It isoften represented on porcelains and other works of art.
FENG-SHUI
A system of spirit influences for good and evil believed by theChinese to attend the natural features of landscape; also, a kind ofgeomancy dealing with these influences, used in determining sites forgraves, houses, etc.
FENGITE
A kind of marble or alabaster, sometimes used for windows onaccount of its transparency.
FENIAN
A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly ofIrishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule inireland.
FENIANISM
The principles, purposes, and methods of the Fenians.
FENKS
The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in themanufacture of Prussian blue. Ure.
FENNEC
A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda) of a pale fawncolor, remarkable for the large size of its ears.
FENNEL
A perennial plant of the genus Fรฆniculum (F.vulgare), havingvery finely divided leaves. It is cultivated in gardens for theagreeable aromatic flavor of its seeds.Smell of sweetest fennel. Milton.A sprig of fennel was in fact the theological smelling bottle of thetender sex. S. G. Goodrich.Azorean, or Sweet, fennel, (Fรฆniculum dulce). It is a smaller andstouter plant than the common fennel, and is used as a pot herb.-- Dog's fennel (Anthemis Cotula), a foul-smelling European weed; --called also mayweed.-- Fennel flower (Bot.), an herb (Nigella) of the Buttercup family,having leaves finely divided, like those of the fennel. N.Damascenais common in gardens. N.sativa furnishes the fennel seed, used as acondiment, etc., in India. These seeds are the "fitches" mentioned inIsaiah (xxviii. 25).-- Fennel water (Med.), the distilled water of fennel seed. It isstimulant and carminative.-- Giant fennel (Ferula communis), has stems full of pith, which, itis said, were used to carry fire, first, by Prometheus.-- Hog's fennel, a European plant (Peucedanum officinale) lookingsomething like fennel.
FENNISH
Abounding in fens; fenny.
FENNY
Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy;boggy. "Fenny snake." Shak.
FENOWED
Corrupted; decayed; moldy. See Vinnewed. [Obs.] Dr. Favour.
FENSI-BLE
Fencible. [Obs.] Spenser.
FENUGREEK
A plant (trigonella Foenum Grรฆcum) cultivated for its strong-smelling seeds, which are "now only used for giving false importanceto horse medicine and damaged hay." J. Smith (Pop. Names of Plants,1881).
FEOD
A feud. See 2d Feud. Blackstone.
FEODAL
Feudal. See Feudal.
FEODALITY
Feudal tenure; the feudal system. See Feudality. Burke.
FEODARY
An ancient officer of the court of wards. Burrill.
FEODATORY
See Feudatory.
FEOFF
, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Feoffed; p. pr. & vb. n.. Feoffing.]Etym: [OE. feffen, OF. feffer, fieffer, F. fieffer, fr. fief fief;cf. LL. feoffare, fefare. See Fief.] (Law)
FEOFFEE
The person to whom a feoffment is made; the person enfeoffed.
FEOFFMENT
One who enfeoffs or grants a fee.
FER
Far. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FER-DE-LANCE
A large, venomous serpent (Trigonocephalus lanceolatus) ofBrazil and the West Indies. It is allied to the rattlesnake, but hasno rattle.
FERACIOUS
Fruitful; producing abudantly. [R.] Thomson.
FERACITY
The state of being feracious or fruitful. [Obs.] Beattie.
FERAE
A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora,Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted tothe Carnivora.
FERAE NATURAE
Of a wild nature; -- applied to animals, as foxes, wild ducks,etc., in which no one can claim property.
FERAL
Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts,birds, and plants. feral child, not raised by humans
FERDE
imp. of Fare. Chaucer.
FERDING
A measure of land mentioned in Domesday Book. It is supposed tohave consisted of a few acres only. [Obs.]
FERDNESS
Fearfulness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FERE
A mate or companion; -- often used of a wife. [Obs.] [Writtenalso fear and feere.] Chaucer.And Cambel took Cambrina to his fere. Spenser.In fere, together; in company. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FERETORY
A portable bier or shrine, variously adorned, used forcontaining relics of saints. Mollett.
FERFORTH
Far forth. [Obs.] As ferforth as, as far as.-- So ferforth, to such a degree.
FERFORTHLY
Ferforth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FERGUSONITE
A mineral of a brownish black color, essentially a tantalo-niobate of yttrium, erbium, and cerium; -- so called after RobertFerguson.
FERIA
A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast.Shipley.
FERIAL
Same as Feria.
FERIATION
The act of keeping holiday; cessation from work. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
FERIE
A holiday. [Obs.] Bullokar.
FERIER
, compar. of Fere, fierce. [Obs.]Rhenus ferier than the cataract. Marston.
FERINE
Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears areferine beasts. Sir M. Hale.-- n.
FERINGEE
The name given to Europeans by the Hindos. [Written alsoFeringhee.]
FERITY
Wildness; savageness; fierceness. [Obs.] Woodward.
FERLY
Singular; wonderful; extraordinary. [Obs.] -- n.
FERMACY
Medicine; pharmacy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FERMENT
To cause ferment of fermentation in; to set in motion; toexcite internal emotion in; to heat.Ye vigorous swains! while youth ferments your blood. Pope.
FERMENTABILITY
Capability of fermentation.
FERMENTABLE
Capable of fermentation; as, cider and other vegetable liquorsare fermentable.
FERMENTAL
Fermentative. [Obs.]
FERMENTATION THEORY
The theory which likens the course of certain diseases (esp.infectious diseases) to the process of fermentation, and attributesthem to the organized ferments in the body. It does not differmaterially from the accepted germ theory (which see).
FERMENTATIVE
Causing, or having power to cause, fermentation; produced byfermentation; fermenting; as, a fermentative process.-- Fer*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.-- Fer*ment"a*tive*ness, n.
FERMERERE
The officer in a religious house who had the care of theinfirmary. [Obs.]
FERMETURE
The mechanism for closing the breech of a breech-loadingfirearm, in artillery consisting principally of the breechblock,obturator, and carrier ring.
FERMILLET
A buckle or clasp. [Obs.] Donne.
FERN
Long ago. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FERNERY
A place for rearing ferns.
FERNTICLE
A freckle on the skin, resembling the seed of fern. [Prov.Eng.]
FERNY
Abounding in ferns.
FEROCIOUS
Fierce; savage; wild; indicating cruelty; ravenous; rapacious;as, ferocious look or features; a ferocious lion.The humbled power of a ferocious enemy. Lowth.
FEROCITY
Savage wildness or fierceness; fury; cruelty; as, ferocity ofcountenance.The pride and ferocity of a Highland chief. Macaulay.
FEROHER
A symbol of the solar deity, found on monuments exhumed inBabylon, Nineveh, etc.
FEROUS
Wild; savage. [R.] Arthur Wilson.
FERRANDINE
A stuff made of silk and wool.I did buy a colored silk ferrandine. Pepys.
FERRANTI PHENOMENON
An increase in the ratio of transformation of an alternatingcurrent converter, accompanied by other changes in electricalconditions, occurring when the secondary of the converter isconnected with a condenser of moderate capacity; -- so called becausefirst observed in connection with the Ferranti cables in London.
FERRARA
A sword bearing the mark of one of the Ferrara family of Italy.These swords were highly esteemed in England and Scotland in the 16thand 17th centuries.
FERRARESE
Pertaining to Ferrara, in Italy.-- n., sing. & pl.
FERRARY
The art of working in iron. [Obs.] Chapman.
FERRATE
A salt of ferric acid.
FERREOUS
Partaking of, made of, or pertaining to, iron; like iron.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FERREST
superl. of Fer. Chaucer.
FERRET
An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela or Putorius furo),about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color,with red eyes. It is a native of Africa, but has been domesticated inEurope. Ferrets are used to drive rabbits and rats out of theirholes.
FERRET-EYE
The spur-winged goose; -- so called from the red circle aroundthe eyes.
FERRETER
One who ferrets. Johnson.
FERRETTO
Copper sulphide, used to color glass. Hebert.
FERRI-
A combining form indicating ferric iron as an ingredient; as,ferricyanide.
FERRIAGE
The price or fare to be paid for passage at a ferry.
FERRIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically(Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valencethan in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid. Ferricacid (Chem.), an acid, H2FeO4, which is not known in the free state,but forms definite salts, analogous to the chromates and sulphates.-- Ferric oxide (Chem.), sesquioxide of iron, Fe2O3; hematite. SeeHematite.
FERRICYANATE
A salt of ferricyanic acid; a ferricyanide.
FERRICYANIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, a ferricyanide. Ferricyanicacid (Chem.), a brown crystalline substance, H6(CN)12Fe2, obtainedfrom potassium ferricyanide, and regarded as the type of theferricyanides; -- called also hydro-ferricyanic acid, hydrogenferricyanide, etc.
FERRICYANIDE
One of a complex series of double cyanides of ferric iron andsome other base. Potassium ferricyanide (Chem.), red prussiate ofpotash; a dark, red, crystalline salt, K6(CN)12Fe2, consisting of thedouble cyanide of potassium and ferric iron. From it is derived theferrous ferricyanate, Turnbull's blue.
FERRIER
A ferryman. Calthrop.
FERRIFEROUS
Producing or yielding iron.
FERRIPRUSSIATE
A ferricyanate; a ferricyanide. [R.]
FERRIPRUSSIC
Ferricyanic. [R.]
FERRIS WHEEL
An amusement device consisting of a giant power-driven steelwheel, revolvable on its stationary axle, and carrying a number ofbalanced passenger cars around its rim; -- so called after G. W. G.Ferris, American engineer, who erected the first of its kind for theWorld's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893.
FERRO-
A prefix, or combining form, indicating ferrous iron as aningredient; as, ferrocyanide.
FERRO-CONCRETE
Concrete strengthened by a core or foundation skeleton of ironor steel bars, strips, etc. Floors, columns, piles, water pipes,etc., have been successfully made of it. Called also armored concretesteel, and reรซnforced concrete.
FERROCALCITE
Limestone containing a large percentage of iron carbonate, andhence turning brown on exposure.
FERROCYANATE
A salt of ferrocyanic acid; a ferrocyanide.
FERROCYANIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a ferrocyanide.ferrocyanic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, H4(CN)6Fe,of strong acid properties, obtained from potassium ferrocyanide, andregarded as the type of the ferrocyanides; -- called also hydro-ferrocyanic acid, hydrogen ferrocyanide. etc.
FERROCYANIDE
One of a series of complex double cyanides of ferrous iron andsome other base. Potassium ferrocyanide (Chem.), yellow prussiate ofpotash; a tough, yellow, crystalline salt, K4(CN)6Fe, the startingpoint in the manufacture of almost all cyanogen compounds, and thebasis of the ferric ferrocyanate, prussian blue. It is obtained bystrongly heating together potash, scrap iron, and animal mattercontaining nitrogen, as horn, leather, blood, etc., in iron pots.
FERROPRUSSIATE
A ferrocyanate; a ferocyanide. [R.]
FERROPRUSSIC
Ferrocyanic.
FERROSO-
See Ferro-.
FERROTYPE
A photographic picture taken on an iron plate by a collodionprocess; -- familiarly called tintype.
FERROUS
Pertaining to, or derived from, iron; -- especially used ofcompounds of iron in which the iron has its lower valence; as,ferrous sulphate.
FERRUGINATED
Having the color or properties of the rust of iron.
FERRUGINEOUS
Ferruginous. [R.]
FERRUGO
A disease of plants caused by fungi, commonly called the rust,from its resemblance to iron rust in color.
FERRULE
A bushing for expanding the end of a flue to fasten it tightlyin the tube plate, or for partly filling up its mouth.
FERRUMINATE
To solder or unite, as metals. [R.] Coleridge.
FERRUMINATION
The soldering ir uniting of me [R.] Coleridge.
FERRY
To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrowwater, in a boat.
FERRYBOAT
A vessel for conveying passengers, merchandise, etc., acrossstreams and other narrow waters.
FERRYMAN
One who maintains or attends a ferry.
FERS
Fierce. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FERTHE
Fourth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FERTILELY
In a fertile or fruitful manner.
FERTILENESS
Fertility. Sir P. Sidney.
FERTILITATE
To fertilize; to fecundate. Sir T. Browne.
FERTILITY
The state or quality of being fertile or fruitful;fruitfulness; productiveness; fecundity; richness; abundance ofresources; fertile invention; quickness; readiness; as, the fertilityof soil, or of imagination. "fertility of resource." E. Everett.And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps Corrupting in its ownfertility. Shak.Thy very weeds are beautiful; thy waste More rich than other climes'fertility. Byron.
FERTILIZATION
The act of fecundating or impregnating animal or vegetablegerms; esp., the process by which in flowers the pollen renders theovule fertile, or an analogous process in flowerless plants;fecundation; impregnation. Close fertilization (Bot.), thefertilization of pistils by pollen derived from the stamens of thesame blossom.-- Cross fertilization, fertilization by pollen from some otherblossom. See under Cross, a.
FERULACEOUS
Pertaining to reeds and canes; having a stalk like a reed; as,ferulaceous plants.
FERULAR
A ferule. [Obs.] Milton.
FERULE
A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on thehand, in punishment.
FERULIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, asafetida (Ferula asafoetida);as, ferulic acid. [Written also ferulaic.]
FERVENCE
Heat; fervency. [Obs.]
FERVENCY
The state of being fervent or warm; ardor; warmth of feeling ordevotion; eagerness.When you pray, let it be with attention, with fervency, and withperseverance. Wake.
FERVESCENT
Growing hot.
FESCENNINE
Pertaining to, or resembling, the Fescennines.-- n.
FESCUE
A grass of the genus Festuca. Fescue grass (Bot.), a genus ofgrasses (Festuca) containing several species of importance inagriculture. Festuca ovina is sheep's fescue; F. elatior is meadowfescue.
FESELS
See Phasel. [Obs.] May (Georgics).
FESSITUDE
Weariness. [Obs.] Bailey.
FESSWISE
In the manner of fess.
FEST
The fist. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FESTAL
Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive.You bless with choicer wine the festal day. Francis.
FESTALLY
Joyously; festively; mirthfully.
FESTENNINE
A fescennine.
FESTER
To cause to fester or rankle.For which I burnt in inward, swelt'ring hate, And fstered rankingmalice in my breast. Marston.
FESTERMENT
A festering. [R.] Chalmers.
FESTEYE
To feast; to entertain. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FESTI-VAL
A time of feasting or celebration; an anniversary day of joy,civil or religious.The morning trumpets festival proclaimed. Milton.
FESTINATE
Hasty; hurried. [Obs.] -- Fes"ti*nate*ly, adv. [Obs.] Shak.
FESTINATION
Haste; hurry. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FESTIVAL
Pertaining to a fest; festive; festal; appropriate to afestival; joyous; mirthful.I cannot woo in festival terms. Shak.
FESTIVE
Pertaining to, or becoming, a feast; festal; joyous; gay;mirthful; sportive.-- Fes"tive*ly, adv.The glad circle round them yield their souls To festive mirth and witthat knows no gall. Thomson.
FESTIVOUS
Pertaining to a feast; festive. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
FESTLICH
Festive; fond of festive occasions. [Obs.] "A festlich man."Chaucer.
FESTOON
A carved ornament consisting of flowers, and leaves, intermixedor twisted together, wound with a ribbon, and hanging or depending ina natural curve. See Illust. of Bucranium.
FESTOONY
Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, festoons. Sir J.Herschel.
FESTUCINE
Of a straw color; greenish yellow. [Obs.]A little insect of a festucine or pale green. Sir T. Browne.
FESTUCOUS
Formed or consisting of straw. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FESTUE
A straw; a fescue. [Obs.] Holland.
FET
A piece. [Obs.] Dryton.
FETAL
Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetalcirculation; fetal membranes.
FETATION
The formation of a fetus in the womb; pregnancy.
FETCH
To bring one's self; to make headway; to veer; as, to fetchabout; to fetch to windward. Totten. To fetch away (Naut.), to breakloose; to roll slide to leeward.-- To fetch and carry, to serve obsequiously, like a trainedspaniel.
FETCHER
One wo fetches or brings.
FETE
A feat. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FETICIDE
The act of killing the fetus in the womb; the offense ofprocuring an abortion.
FETICISM
See Fetichism.
FETID
Having an offensive smell; stinking.Most putrefactions . . . smell either fetid or moldy. Bacon.
FETIDITY
Fetidness.
FETIDNESS
The quality or state of being fetid.
FETIFEROUS
Producing young, as animals.
FETIS
Neat; pretty; well made; graceful. [Obs.]Full fetis was her cloak, as I was ware. Chaucer.
FETISELY
Neatly; gracefully; properly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FETLOCK
The cushionlike projection, bearing a tuft of long hair, on theback side of the leg above the hoof of the horse and similar animals.Also, the joint of the limb at this point (between the great pasternbone and the metacarpus), or the tuft of hair.Their wounded steeds Fret fetlock deep in gore. Shak.
FETOR
A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness. Arbuthnot.
FETTE
To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FETTER
1. To put fetters upon; to shakle or confine the feet of with achain; to bind.My heels are fettered, but my fist is free. Milton.
FETTERED
Seeming as if fettered, as the feet pf certain animals whichbend backward, and appear unfit for walking.
FETTERER
One who fetters. Landor.
FETTERLESS
Free from fetters. Marston.
FETTLE
1. To repair; to prepare; to put in order. [Prov. Eng.]Carlyle.
FETTLING
A mixture of ore, cinders, etc., used to line the hearth of apuddling furnace. [Eng.] [It is commonly called fix in the UnitedStates.]
FETUOUS
Neat; feat. [Obs.] Herrick.
FETUS
The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg;often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparousand oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages.[Written also foetus.]
FETWAH
A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law.Whitworth.
FEU
A free and gratuitous right to lands made to one for service tobe performed by him; a tenure where the vassal, in place of militaryservices, makes a return in grain or in money. Burrill.
FEU DE JOIE
A fire kindled in a public place in token of joy; a bonfire; afiring of guns in token of joy.
FEUAR
One who holds a feu. Sir W. Scott.
FEUD
A stipendiary estate in land, held of superior, by service; theright which a vassal or tenant had to the lands or other immovablething of his lord, to use the same and take the profists thereofhereditarily, rendering to his superior such duties and services asbelong to military tenure, etc., the property of the soil alwaysremaining in the lord or superior; a fief; a fee.
FEUDALISM
The feudal system; a system by which the holding of estates inland is made dependent upon an obligation to render military serviceto the kind or feudal superior; feudal principles and usages.
FEUDALIST
An upholder of feudalism.
FEUDALITY
The state or quality of being feudal; feudal form orconstitution. Burke.
FEUDALIZATION
The act of reducing to feudal tenure.
FEUDALIZE
To reduce toa feudal tenure; to conform to feudalism.
FEUDALLY
In a feudal manner.
FEUDARY
Held by, or pertaining to, feudal tenure.
FEUDATARY
See Feudatory.
FEUDATORY
A tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior oncondition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief.The grantee . . . was styled the feudatory or vassal. Blackstone.[He] had for feudatories great princes. J. H. Newman.
FEUDIST
A writer on feuds; a person versed in feudal law. Spelman.
FEUILLANTS
A reformed branch of the Bernardines, founded in 1577 atFeuillans, near Toulouse, in France.
FEUILLEMORT
Having the color of a faded leaf. Locke.
FEUILLETON
A part of a French newspaper (usually the bottom of the page),devoted to light literature, criticism, etc.; also, the article ortale itself, thus printed.
FEUILLTONIST
A writer of feuilletons. F. Harrison.
FEUTER
To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear. Spenser.
FEUTERER
A dog keeper. [Obs.] Massinger.
FEVER
A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat,acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of thefunctions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Manydiseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, aredenominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever.
FEVERET
A slight fever. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
FEVERFEW
A perennial plant (Pyrethrum, or Chrysanthemum, Parthenium)allied to camomile, having finely divided leaves and white blossoms;-- so named from its supposed febrifugal qualities.
FEVEROUSLY
Feverishly. [Obs.] Donne.
FEVERWORT
See Fever root, under Fever.
FEVERY
Feverish. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
FEW
Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicatinga small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often,by ellipsis of a noun, a few people. "Are not my days few" Job x. 20.Few know and fewer care. Proverb.
FEWEL
Fuel. [Obs.] Hooker.
FEWMET
See Fumet. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
FEY
Fated; doomed. [Old Eng. & Scot.]
FEYNE
To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FEYRE
A fair or market. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FEZ
A felt or cloth cap, usually red and having a tassel, -- avariety of the tarboosh. See Tarboosh. B. Taylor.
FIACRE
A kind of French hackney coach.
FIANCE
To betroth; to affiance. [Obs.] Harmar.
FIANCEE
A betrothed woman.
FIANTS
The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger.
FIAR
One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to theestate of a life renter.I am fiar of the lands; she a life renter. Sir W. Scott.
FIASCO
A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musicalperformance, or of any pretentious undertaking.
FIAUNT
Commission; fiat; order; decree. [Obs.] Spenser.
FIB
A falsehood; a lie; -- used euphemistically.They are very serious; they don't tell fibs. H. James.
FIBBER
One who tells fibs.
FIBRIFORM
Having the form of a fiber or fibers; resembling a fiber.
FIBRIL
A small fiber; the branch of a fiber; a very slender thread; afibrilla. Cheyne.
FIBRILLA
A minute thread of fiber, as one of the fibrous elements of amuscular fiber; a fibril.
FIBRILLAR
Of or pertaining to fibrils or fibers; as, fibrillartwitchings.
FIBRILLARY
Of of pertaining to fibrils.
FIBRILLATED
Furnished with fibrils; fringed.
FIBRILLATION
The state of being reduced to fibers. Carpenter.
FIBRILLOSE
Covered with hairlike appendages, as the under surface of somelichens; also, composed of little strings or fibers; as, fibrilloseappendages.
FIBRILLOUS
Pertaining to, or composed of, fibers.
FIBRINATION
The state of acquiring or having an excess of fibrin.
FIBRINE
Belonging to the fibers of plants.
FIBRINOGEN
An albuminous substance existing in the blood, and in otheranimal fluids, which either alone or with fibrinoplastin orparaglobulin forms fibrin, and thus causes coagulation.
FIBRINOGENOUS
Possessed of properties similar to fibrinogen; capable offorming fibrin.
FIBRINOPLASTIC
Like fibrinoplastin; capable of forming fibrin when brought incontact with fibrinogen.
FIBRINOPLASTIN
An albuminous substance, existing in the blood, which incombination with fibrinogen forms fibrin; -- called alsoparaglobulin.
FIBRINOUS
Having, or partaking of the properties of, fibrin; as, fibriousexudation.
FIBROCARTILAGE
A kind of cartilage with a fibrous matrix and approachingfibrous connective tissue in structure.-- Fi`bro*car`ti*lag"i*nous, a.
FIBROCHONDROSTEAL
Partly fibrous, partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous. St.George Mivart.
FIBROID
Resembling or forming fibrous tissue; made up of fibers; as,fibroid tumors.-- n.
FIBROIN
A variety of gelatin; the chief ingredient of raw silk,extracted as a white amorphous mass.
FIBROLITE
A silicate of alumina, of fibrous or columnar structure. It islike andalusite in composition; -- called also sillimanite, andbucholizite.
FIBROMA
A tumor consisting mainly of fibrous tissue, or of samemodification of such tissue.
FIBROSPONGIAE
An order of sponges having a fibrous skeleton, including thecommercial sponges.
FIBROUS
Containing, or consisting of, fibers; as, the fibrous coat ofthe cocoanut; the fibrous roots of grasses.-- Fi"brous*ness, n.
FIBROVASCULAR
Containing woody fiber and ducts, as the stems of all floweringplants and ferns; -- opposed to cellular.
FIBSTER
One who tells fibs. [Jocular]
FIBU-LAR
Pertaining to the fibula.
FIBULA
The outer and usually the smaller of the two bones of the leg,or hind limb, below the knee.
FIBULARE
The bone or cartilage of the tarsus, which articulates with thefibula, and corresponds to the calcaneum in man and most mammals.
FICE
A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc. [SouthernU.S.]
FICHE
See Fitchร.
FICHTELITE
A white crystallized mineral resin from the Fichtelgebirge,Bavaria.
FICHU
A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neckand throat, and extending to the shoulders.
FICKLE
Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeablemind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as,Fortune's fickle wheel. Shak.They know how fickle common lovers are. Dryden.
FICKLENESS
The quality of being fickle; instability; inconsonancy. Shak.
FICKLY
In a fickle manner. [Obs.] Pepys.
FICO
A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one'sthumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing. A fig foryou.Steal! foh, a fico for the phrase. Shak.
FICTILE
Molded, or capable of being molded, into form by art; relatingto pottery or to molding in any soft material.Fictile earth is more fragile than crude earth. Bacon.The earliest specimens of Italian fictile art. C. Wordsworth.Fictile ware, ware made of any material which is molded or shapedwhile soft; hence, pottery of any sort.-- Fic"tile*ness, n.-- Fic*til"i*ty, n.
FICTION
An assumption of a possible thing as a fact, irrespective ofthe question of its truth. Wharton.
FICTIONAL
Pertaining to, or characterized by, fiction; fictitious;romantic."Fictional rather than historical." Latham.
FICTIONIST
A writer of fiction. [R.] Lamb.
FICTIOUS
Fictitious. [R.] Prior.
FICTITIOUS
Feigned; imaginary; not real; fabulous; counterfeit; false; notgenuine; as, fictitious fame.The human persons are as fictitious as the airy ones. Pope.-- Fic*ti"tious*ly, adv.-- Fic*ti"tious*ness, n.
FICTIVE
Feigned; counterfeit. "The fount of fictive tears." Tennyson.
FICTOR
An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in anyplastic material. [R.] Elmes.
FICUS
A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F. Carica)produces the figs of commerce; the fig tree.
FID
A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast,being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting onthe trestle trees.
FIDALGO
The lowest title of nobility in Portugal, corresponding to thatof Hidalgo in Spain.
FIDDLE
A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; akit.
FIDDLE-FADDLE
A trifle; trifling talk; nonsense. [Colloq.] Spectator.
FIDDLE-SHAPED
Inversely ovate, with a deep hollow on each side. Gray.
FIDDLEDEEDEE
An exclamatory word or phrase, equivalent to nonsense![Colloq.]
FIDDLER
A burrowing crab of the genus Gelasimus, of many species. Themale has one claw very much enlarged, and often holds it in aposition similar to that in which a musician holds a fiddle, hencethe name; -- called also calling crab, soldier crab, and fightingcrab.
FIDDLESTICK
The bow, strung with horsehair, used in playing the fiddle; afiddle bow.
FIDDLESTRING
One of the catgut strings of a fiddle.
FIDDLEWOOD
The wood of several West Indian trees, mostly of the genusCitharexylum.
FIDEJUSSION
The act or state of being bound as surety for another;suretyship.
FIDEJUSSOR
A surety; one bound for another, conjointly with him; aguarantor. Blackstone.
FIDELITY
Faithfulness; adherence to right; careful and exact observanceof duty, or discharge of obligations. Especially:(a) Adherence to a person or party to which one is bound; loyalty.Whose courageous fidelity was proof to all danger. Macaulay.The best security for the fidelity of men is to make interestcoincide with duty. A. Hamilton.
FIDES
Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith.
FIDGE
See Fidget. [R.] Swift.
FIDGET
To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, orby fits and starts. Moore.
FIDGETINESS
Quality of being fidgety.
FIDGETY
Restless; uneasy. Lowell.
FIDIA
A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevineFidia, F. longipes) is very injurious to vines in America.
FIDICINAL
Of or pertaining to a stringed instrument.
FIDUCIALLY
With confidence. South.
FIDUCIARY
One who depends for salvation on faith, without works; anAntinomian. Hammond.
FIE
An exclamation denoting contempt or dislike. See Fy. Fuller.
FIEF
An estate held of a superior on condition of military service;a fee; a feud. See under Benefice, n., 2.
FIELD
The whole surface of an escutcheon; also, so much of it isshown unconcealed by the different bearings upon it. See Illust. ofFess, where the field is represented as gules (red), while the fessis argent (silver).
FIELDED
Engaged in the field; encamped. [Obs.]To help fielded friends. Shak.
FIELDEN
Consisting of fields. [Obs.]The fielden country also and plains. Holland.
FIELDER
A ball payer who stands out in the field to catch or stopballs.
FIELDFARE
a small thrush (Turdus pilaris) which breeds in northern Europeand winters in Great Britain. The head, nape, and lower part of theback are ash-colored; the upper part of the back and wing coverts,chestnut; -- called also fellfare.
FIELDING
The act of playing as a fielder.
FIELDPIECE
A cannon mounted on wheels, for the use of a marching army; apiece of field artillery; -- called also field gun.
FIELDWORK
Any temporary fortification thrown up by an army in the field;-- commonly in the plural.All works which do not come under the head of permanent fortificationare called fieldworks. Wilhelm.
FIELDY
Open, like a field. [Obs.] Wyclif.
FIEND
An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wickedor cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil ora demon.Into this wild abyss the wary fiend Stood on the brink of Hell andlooked a while. Milton.O woman! woman! when to ill thy mind Is bent, all hell contains nofouler fiend. Pope.
FIENDFUL
Full of fiendish spirit or arts. Marlowe.-- Fiend"ful*ly, adv.
FIENDISH
Like a fiend; diabolically wicked or cruel; infernal;malignant; devilish; hellish.-- Fiend"ish*ly, adv.-- Fiend"ish*ness, n.
FIENDLIKE
Fiendish; diabolical. Longfellow.
FIENDLY
Fiendlike; monstrous; devilish. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FIERASFER
A genus of small, slender fishes, remarkable for their habit ofliving as commensals in other animals. One species inhabits the gillcavity of the pearl oyster near Panama; another lives within an EastIndian holothurian.
FIERI FACIAS
A judicial writ that lies for one who has recovered in debt ordamages, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of thegoods, chattels, or real estate of the defendant, the sum claimed.Blackstone. Cowell.
FIERINESS
The quality of being fiery; heat; acrimony; irritability; as, afieriness of temper. Addison.
FIESTA
Among Spanish, a religious festival; a saint's day or holiday;also, a holiday or festivity.
FIFE
A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chieflyto accompany the drum in military music. Fife major (Mil.), anoncommissioned officer who superintends the fifers of a regiment.-- Fife rail. (Naut.) (a) A rail about the mast, at the deck, tohold belaying pins, etc. (b) A railing around the break of a poopdeck.
FIFER
One who plays on a fife.
FIFTEEN
Five and ten; one more than fourteen.
FIFTH
The interval of three tones and a semitone, embracing fivediatonic degrees of the scale; the dominant of any key.
FIFTHLY
In the fifth place; as the fifth in order.
FIFTIETH
One of fifty equal parts; the quotient of a unit divided byfifty.
FIFTY
Five times ten; as, fifty men.
FIG
A small fruit tree (Ficus Carica) with large leaves, known fromthe remotest antiquity. It was probably native from Syria westward tothe Canary Islands.
FIG-SHELL
A marine univalve shell of the genus Pyrula, or Ficula,resembling a fig in form.
FIGARO
An adroi
FIGARY
A frolic; a vagary; a whim. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
FIGENT
Fidgety; restless. [Obs.]Such a little figent thing. Beau. & Fl.
FIGGUM
A juggler's trick; conjuring. [Obs.]The devil is the author of wicked figgum. B. Jonson.
FIGHTER
One who fights; a combatant; a warrior. Shak.
FIGHTINGLY
Pugnaciously.
FIGHTWITE
A mulct or fine imposed on a person for making a fight orquarrel to the disturbance of the peace.
FIGMENT
An invention; a fiction; something feigned or imagined.Social figments, feints, and formalism. Mrs. Browning.It carried rather an appearance of figment and invention . . . thanof truth and reality. Woodward.
FIGPECKER
The European garden warbler (Sylvia, or Currica, hortensis); --called also beccafico and greater pettychaps.
FIGULINE
A piece of pottery ornamented with representations of naturalobjects.Whose figulines and rustic wares Scarce find him bread from day today. Longfellow.
FIGURABILITY
The quality of being figurable. Johnson.
FIGURABLE
Capable of being brought to a fixed form or shape.Lead is figurable, but water is not. Johnson.
FIGURAL
Figurate. See Figurate. Figural numbers. See Figurate numbers,under Figurate.
FIGURANT
One who dances at the opera, not singly, but in groups orfigures; an accessory character on the stage, who figures in itsscenes, but has nothing to say; hence, one who figures in any scene,without taking a prominent part.
FIGURANTE
A female figurant; esp., a ballet girl.
FIGURATE
Florid; figurative; involving passing discords by the freermelodic movement of one or more parts or voices in the harmony; as,figurate counterpoint or descant. Figurate counterpoint or descant(Mus.), that which is not simple, or in which the parts do not movetogether tone for tone, but in which freer movement of one or moreparts mingles passing discords with the harmony; -- called alsofigural, figurative, and figured counterpoint or descant (althoughthe term figured is more commonly applied to a bass with numeralswritten above or below to indicate the other notes of the harmony).-- Figurate numbers (Math.), numbers, or series of numbers, formedfrom any arithmetical progression in which the first term is a unit,and the difference a whole number, by taking the first term, and thesums of the first two, first three, first four, etc., as thesuccessive terms of a new series, from which another may be formed inthe same manner, and so on, the numbers in the resulting series beingsuch that points representing them are capable of symmetricalarrangement in different geometrical figures, as triangles, squares,pentagons, etc.
FIGURATED
Having a determinate form.
FIGURATELY
In a figurate manner.
FIGURATION
Mixture of concords and discords.
FIGURE
A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or therelation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed onall sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solidwhen inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines,angles, surfaces, etc.
FIGUREHEAD
The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship.
FIGURIAL
Represented by figure or delineation. [R.] Craig.
FIGURINE
A very small figure, whether human or of an animal; especially,one in terra cotta or the like; -- distinguished from statuette,which is applied to small figures in bronze, marble, etc.
FIGURIST
One who uses or interprets figurative expressions. Waterland.
FIGWORT
A genus of herbaceous plants (Scrophularia), mostly found inthe north temperate zones. See Brownwort.
FIJIAN
Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants.-- n.
FIKE
See Fyke.
FIL
imp. of Fall, v. i. Fell. Chaucer.
FILACEOUS
Composed of threads. Bacon.
FILACER
A former officer in the English Court of Common Pleas; -- socalled because he filed the writs on which he made out process.[Obs.] Burrill.
FILAMENT
A thread or threadlike object or appendage; a fiber; esp.(Bot.), the threadlike part of the stamen supporting the anther.
FILAMENTARY
Having the character of, or formed by, a filament.
FILAMENTOID
Like a filament.
FILAMENTOUS
Like a thread; consisting of threads or filaments. Gray.
FILANDER
A species of kangaroo (Macropus Brunii), inhabiting New Guinea.
FILANDERS
A disease in hawks, characterized by the presence of smallthreadlike worms, also of filaments of coagulated blood, from therupture of a vein; -- called also backworm. Sir T. Browne.
FILAR
Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threadsstretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filarmicrometer.
FILARIA
A genus of slender, nematode worms of many species, parasiticin various animals. See Guinea worm.
FILARIAL
Of, pertaining to, or caused by, filariรฆ and allied parasiticworms.
FILARIASIS
The presence of filariรฆ in the blood; infection with filariรฆ.
FILASSE
Vegetable fiber, as jute or ramie, prepared for manufacture.
FILATORY
A machine for forming threads. [Obs.] W. Tooke.
FILBERT
The fruit of the Corylus Avellana or hazel. It is an oval nut,containing a kernel that has a mild, farinaceous, oily taste,agreeable to the palate.
FILCH
To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of littlevalue); to pilfer.Fain would they filch that little food away. Dryden.But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which notenriches him, And makes me poor indeed. Shak.
FILCHER
One who filches; a thief.
FILCHINGLY
By pilfering or petty stealing.
FILE
To put upon the files or among the records of a court; to noteon (a paper) the fact date of its reception in court.To file a paper, on the part of a party, is to place it in theofficial custody of the clerk. To file, on the part of the clerk, isto indorse upon the paper the date of its reception, and retain it inhis office, subject to inspection by whomsoever it may concern.Burrill.
FILE CLOSER
A commissioned or noncommissioned officer posted in the rear ofa line, or on the flank of a column, of soldiers, to rectify mistakesand insure steadiness and promptness in the ranks.
FILEFISH
Any plectognath fish of the genera Monacanthus, Alutera,balistes, and allied genera; -- so called on account of the roughlygranulated skin, which is sometimes used in place of sandpaper.
FILEMOT
See Feullemort. Swift.
FILER
One who works with a file.
FILIALLY
In a filial manner.
FILIATE
To adopt as son or daughter; to establish filiation between.[R.] Southey.
FILIATION
The assignment of a bastard child to some one as its ather;affiliation. Smart.
FILIBEG
Same as Kilt. [Written also philibeg.]
FILIBUSTER
A lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest ofplunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infestingthe Spanish American coasts, but introduced into common English todesignate the followers of Lopez in his expedition to Cuba in 1851,and those of Walker in his expedition to Nicaragua, in 1855.
FILIBUSTERISM
The characteristics or practices of a filibuster. Bartlett.
FILICAL
Belonging to the Filices, r ferns.
FILICIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, ferns; as, filicic acid.
FILICIDE
The act of murdering a son or a daughter; also, parent whocommits such a murder.
FILICIFORM
Shaped like a fern or like the parts of a fern leaf. Smart.
FILICOID
Fernlike, either in form or in the nature of the method ofreproduction.
FILIETY
The relation of a son to a father; sonship; -- the correlativeof paternity. J. S. Mill.
FILIFEROUS
Producing threads. Carpenter.
FILIFORM
Having the shape of a thread or filament; as, the filiformpapillรฆ of the tongue; a filiform style or peduncle. See Illust. ofAntennร.
FILIGRANED
See Filigreed. [Archaic]
FILIGREE
Ornamental work, formerly with grains or breads, but nowcomposed of fine wire and used chiefly in decorating gold and silverto which the wire is soldered, being arranged in designs frequentlyof a delicate and intricate arabesque pattern.
FILIGREED
Adorned with filigree. Tatler.
FILING
A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as,iron filings.
FILIOQUE
The Latin for, "and from the Son," equivalent to et filio,inserted by the third council of Toledo (a. d. 589) in the clause quiex Patre procedit (who proceedeth from the Father) of the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed (a. d. 381), which makes a creed state thatthe Holy Ghost proceeds from the Son as well as from the Father.Hence, the doctrine itself (not admitted by the Eastern Church).
FILIPENDULOUS
Suspended by, or strung upon, a thread; -- said of tuberousswellings in the middle or at the extremities of slender, threadlikerootlets.
FILIPINO
A native of the Philippine Islands, specif. one of Spanishdescent or of mixed blood.
FILL
One of the thills or shafts of a carriage. Mortimer. Fillhorse, a thill horse. Shak.
FILLED CHEESE
An inferior kind of cheese made from skim milk with a fatty"filling," such as oleomargarine or lard, to replace the fat removedin the cream.
FILLER
One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling.'T is mere filer, to stop a vacancy in the hexameter. Dryden.They have six diggers to four fillers, so as to keep the fillersalways at work. Mortimer.
FILLET
A piece of lean meat without bone; sometimes, a long striprolled together and tied.
FILLETING
The protecting of a joint, as between roof and parapet wall,with mortar, or cement, where flashing is employed in better work.
FILLIBEG
A kilt. See Filibeg.
FILLIBUSTER
See Filibuster.
FILLING
Prepared wort added to ale to cleanse it. Back filling. (Arch.)See under Back, a.
FILLIPEEN
See Philopena.
FILLY
A female foal or colt; a young mare. Cf. Colt, Foal.Neighing in likeness of a filly foal. Shak.
FILM
To cover with a thin skin or pellicle.It will but skin and film the ulcerous place. Shak.
FILMINESS
State of being filmy.
FILMY
Composed of film or films.Whose filmy cord should bind the struggling fly. Dryden.
FILOPLUMACEOUS
Having the structure of a filoplume.
FILOPLUME
A hairlike feather; a father with a slender scape and without aweb in most or all of its length.
FILOSE
Terminating in a threadlike process.
FILOSELLE
A kind of silk thread less glossy than floss, and spun fromcoarser material. It is much used in embroidery instead of floss.
FILS
Son; -- sometimes used after a French proper name todistinguish a son from his father, as, Alexandre Dumas, fils.
FILTER
Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal,through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from thesolid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or devicecontaining such substance; a strainer; also, a similar device forpurifying air. Filter bed, a pond, the bottom of which is a filtercomposed of sand gravel.-- Filter gallery, an underground gallery or tunnel, alongside of astream, to collect the water that filters through the interveningsand and gravel; -- called also infiltration gallery.
FILTHILY
In a filthy manner; foully.
FILTHY
Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty;polluted; foul; impure; obscene. "In the filthy-mantled pool." Shak.He which is filthy let him be filthy still. Rev. xxii. 11.
FILTRATE
To filter; to defecate; as liquid, by straining or percolation.Arbuthnot.
FILTRATION
The act or process of filtering; the mechanical separation of aliquid from the undissolved particles floating in it.
FIMBRIA
A fringe, or fringed border.(b) A band of white matter bordering the hippocampus in the brain.-- Fim"bri*al, a.
FIMBRIATE
Having the edge or extremity bordered by filiform processesthicker than hairs; fringed; as, the fimbriate petals of the pink;the fimbriate end of the Fallopian tube.
FIMBRIATED
Having a very narrow border of another tincture; -- said esp.of an ordinary or subordinary.
FIMBRICATE
fringed, on one side only, by long, straight hairs, as theantennรฆ of certain insects.
FIN
To carve or cut up, as a chub.
FIN DE SIECLE
Lit., end of the century; -- mostly used adjectively in Englishto signify: belonging to, or characteristic of, the close of the 19thcentury; modern; "up-to-date;" as, fin-de-siรจcle ideas.
FIN KEEL
A projection downward from the keel of a yacht, resembling inshape the fin of a fish, though often with a cigar-shaped bulb oflead at the bottom, and generally made of metal. Its use is toballast the boat and also to enable her to sail close to the wind andto make the least possible leeway by offering great resistance tolateral motion through the water.
FIN-TOED
Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also,lobate.
FINABLE
Liable or subject to a fine; as, a finable person or offense.Bacon.
FINALE
Close; termination; as:(a) (Mus.) The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or anyinstrumental composition.(b) The last composition performed in any act of an opera.(c) The closing part, piece, or scene in any public performance orexhibition.
FINALIST
Any of the players who meet in the final round of a tournamentin which the losers in any round do not play again.
FINANCIAL
Pertaining to finance. "Our financial and commercial system."Macaulay.
FINANCIALIST
A financier.
FINANCIALLY
In a dfinancial manner. Burke.
FINANCIER
To conduct financial operations.
FINARY
See Finery.
FINATIVE
Conclusive; decisive; definitive; final. [Obs.] Greene (1593).
FINBACK
Any whale of the genera Sibbaldius, Balรฆnoptera, and alliedgenera, of the family Balรฆnopteridรฆ, characterized by a prominent finon the back. The common finbacks of the New England coast areSibbaldius tectirostris and S. tuberosus.
FINBAT KITE
= Eddy kite. [Eng.]
FINCH
A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging tothe family Fringillidรฆ.
FINCHBACKED
Streaked or spotted on the back; -- said of cattle.
FINCHED
Same as Finchbacked.
FIND
To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such adetermination to a court; as, the jury find for the plaintiff.Burrill.
FINDABLE
Capable of beong found; discoverable. Fuller.
FINDER
One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a smalltelescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a largertelescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily.
FINDFAULT
A censurer or caviler. [Obs.]
FINDFAULTING
Apt to censure or cavil; faultfinding; captious. [Obs.]Whitlock.
FINDING
The result of a judicial examination or inquiry, especiallyinto some matter of fact; a verdict; as, the finding of a jury.Burrill.After his friends finding and his rent. Chaucer.
FINDY
Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial. [Obs.]A cold May and a windy Makes the barn fat amd findy. Old Prover
FINE
To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach oflaw; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; tomulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars.
FINEDRAW
To sew up, so nicely that the seam is not perceived; to renter.Marryat.
FINEDRAWER
One who finedraws.
FINEDRAWN
Drawn out with too much subtilty; overnice; as, finedrawnspeculations.
FINEER
To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable forthe use of others, and then threatening not to take them except oncredit. [R.] Goldsmith.
FINELESS
Endless; boundless. [Obs.] Shak.
FINELY
In a fine or finished manner.
FINER
One who fines or purifies.
FINERY
A charcoal hearth or furnace for the conversion of cast ironinto wrought iron, or into iron suitable for puddling.
FINESPUN
Spun so as to be fine; drawn to a fine thread; attenuated;hence, unsubstantial; visionary; as, finespun theories.
FINESSE
The act of finessing. See Finesse, v. i., 2.
FINESTILL
To distill, as spirit from molasses or some saccharinepreparation.
FINESTILLER
One who finestills.
FINEW
Moldiness. [R.]
FINFOOT
A South American bird (heliornis fulica) allied to the grebes.The name is also applied to several related species of the genusPodica.
FINGER
To use the fingers in playing on an instrument. Busby.
FINGERED
Having leaflets like fingers; digitate.
FINGERER
One who fingers; a pilferer.
FINGERLING
A young salmon. See Parr.
FINGLE-FANGLE
A trifle. [Low] Hudibras.
FINGRIGO
A prickly, climbing shrub of the genus Pisonia. The fruit is akind of berry.
FINIAL
The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that formsthe upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes,the pinnacle itself.
FINICAL
Affectedly fine; overnice; unduly particular; fastidious."Finical taste." Wordsworth.The gross style consists in giving no detail, the finical in givingnothing else. Hazlitt.
FINICALITY
The quality of being finical; finicalness.
FINIFIC
A limiting element or quality. [R.]The essential finific in the form of the finite. Coleridge.
FINIFY
To make fine; to dress finically. [Obs.]Hath so pared and finified them [his feet.] B. Jonson.
FINIKIN
Precise in trifles; idly busy. [Colloq.] Smart.
FINIS
An end; conclusion. It is often placed at the end of a book.
FINISH
The joiner work and other finer work required for thecompletion of a building, especially of the interior. See Insidefinish, and Outside finish.
FINISHED
Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete;perfect; as, a finished poem; a finished education. Finished work(Mach.), work that is made smooth or polished, though not necessarilycompleted.
FINISHING
The act or process of completing or perfecting; the final workupon or ornamentation of a thing.
FINITE
Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity;bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence;a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration.
FINITELESS
Infinite. [Obs.] Sir T. browne.
FINITELY
In a finite manner or degree.
FINITENESS
The state of being finite.
FINITUDE
Limitation. Cheyne.
FINJAN
In the Levant, a small coffee cup without a handle, such as isheld in a cup or stand called a zarf.
FINLANDER
A native or inhabitant of Finland.
FINLESS
destitute of fins.
FINLET
A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin.
FINLIKE
Resembling a fin.
FINN
A native of Finland; one of the FinnFinns.
FINNAN HADDIE
Haddock cured in peat smoke, originally at Findon (pron.fรฌn"an), Scotland. the name is also applied to other kinds of smokedhaddock. [Written also finnan haddock.]
FINNED
Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin. Mortimer.
FINNER
A finback whale.
FINNIC
Of or pertaining to the Finns.
FINNIKIN
A variety of pigeon, with a crest somewhat resembling the maneof a horse. [Written also finikin.]
FINNISH
Of or pertaining to Finland, to the Finns, or to theirlanguage.-- n.
FINNY
Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes.
FINOCHIO
An umbelliferous plant (Foeniculum dulce) having a somewhattuberous stem; sweet fennel. The blanched stems are used in Franceand Italy as a culinary vegetable.
FINOS
Second best wool from Merino sheep. Gardner.
FINPIKE
The bichir. See Crossopterygii.
FINSEN LIGHT
Highly actinic light, derived from sunlight or from some formof electric lamp, used in the treatment of lupus and other cutaneousaffections.
FINT
3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FIORD
A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks orrocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska. [Written also fjord.]
FIORIN
A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba); -- calledalso fiorin grass.
FIORITE
A variety of opal occuring in the cavities of volcanic tufa, insmooth and shining globular and botryoidal masses, having a pearlyluster; -- so called from Fiora, in Ischia.
FIORITURE
Little flowers of ornament introduced into a melody by a singeror player.
FIPPENNY BIT
The Spanish half real, or one sixteenth of a dollar, -- socalled in Pennsylvania and the adjacent States. [Obs.]
FIPPLE
A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music. [Obs.] Bacon.
FIR
A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size andelegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others fortheir resin. The species are distinguished as the balsam fir, thesilver fir, the red fir, etc. The Scoth fir is a Pinus.
FIR TREE
. See Fir.
FIRE
To cauterize. To fire up, to light up the fires of, as of anengine.
FIRE BEETLE
A very brilliantly luminous beetle (Pyrophorus noctilucus), oneof the elaters, found in Central and South America; -- called alsocucujo. The name is also applied to other species. See Firefly.
FIRE-FANGED
Injured as by fire; burned; -- said of manure which has lostits goodness and acquired an ashy hue in consequence of heatgenerated by decomposition.
FIRE-NEW
Fresh from the forge; bright; quite new; brand-new. Charlesreade.Your fire-new stamp of honor is scarce current. Shak.
FIRE-SET
A set of fire irons, including, commonly, tongs, shovel, andpoker.
FIREARM
A gun, pistol, or any weapon from a shot is discharged by theforce of an explosive substance, as gunpowder.
FIREBACK
One of several species of pheasants of the genus Euplocamus,having the lower back a bright, fiery red. They inhabit Southern Asiaand the East Indies.
FIREBARE
A beacon. [Obs.] Burrill.
FIREBIRD
The Baltimore oriole.
FIREBOARD
A chimney board or screen to close a fireplace when not in use.
FIREBOTE
An allowance of fuel. See Bote.
FIRECRACKER
See Cracker., n., 3.
FIRECREST
A small European kinglet (Regulus ignicapillus), having abright red crest; -- called also fire-crested wren.
FIREDOG
A support for wood in a fireplace; an andiron.
FIREFISH
A singular marine fish of the genus Pterois, family Scorpรฆnidรฆ,of several species, inhabiting the Indo-Pacific region. They areusually red, and have very large spinose pectoral and dorsal fins.
FIREFLAIRE
A European sting ray of the genus Trygon (T. pastinaca); --called also fireflare and fiery flaw.
FIREFLAME
The European band fish (Cepola rubescens).
FIREFLY
Any luminous winged insect, esp. luminous beetles of the familyLampyridรฆ.
FIRELESS
Destitute of fire.
FIRELOCK
An old form of gunlock, as the flintlock, which ignites thepriming by a spark; perhaps originally, a matchlock. Hence, a gunhaving such a lock.
FIREPLACE
The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; --usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built.
FIREPROOF
Proof against fire; incombustible.
FIREPROOFING
The act or process of rendering anything incombustible; also,the materials used in the process.
FIRER
One who fires or sets fire to anything; an incendiary. [R.] R.Carew.
FIREROOM
Same as Stokehold, below.
FIRESIDE
A place near the fire or hearth; home; domestic life orretirement.
FIRETAIL
The European redstart; -- called also fireflirt. [prov. Eng.]
FIREWARDEN
An officer who has authority to direct in the extinguishing offires, or to order what precautions shall be taken against fires; --called also fireward.
FIREWOOD
Wood for fuel.
FIREWORK
A pyrotechnic exhibition. [Obs. in the sing.]Night before last, the Duke of Richmond gave a firework. Walpole.
FIREWORM
The larva of a small tortricid moth which eats the leaves ofthe cranberry, so that the vines look as if burned; -- called alsocranberry worm.
FIRING PIN
In the breech mechanism of a firearm, the pin which strikes thehead of the cartridge and explodes it.
FIRK
To beat; to strike; to chastise. [Obs.]I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret him. Shak.
FIRLOT
A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of aboll of grain or meal. The Linlithgow wheat firlot was to theimperial bushel as 998 to 1000; the barley firlot as 1456 to 1000.Brande & C.
FIRM
The name, title, or style, under which a company transactsbusiness; a partnership of two or more persons; a commercial house;as, the firm of Hope & Co.
FIRMAMENT
The orb of the fixed stars; the most rmote of the celestialspheres.
FIRMAMENTAL
Pertaining to the firmament; celestial; being of the upperregions. Dryden.
FIRMAN
In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree ormandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generallygiven for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protectionand assistance. [Written also firmaun.]
FIRMER-CHISEL
A chisel, thin in proportion to its width. It has a tang toenter the handle instead of a socket for receiving it. Knight.
FIRMITUDE
Strength; stability. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
FIRMITY
Strength; firmness; stability. [Obs.] Chillingworth.
FIRMLY
In a firm manner.
FIRMNESS
The state or quality of being firm.
FIRMS
The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafterstaken together. [Obs.]
FIRRING
See Furring.
FIRRY
Made of fir; abounding in firs.In firry woodlands making moan. Tennyson.
FIRST
Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; --much used in composition with adjectives and participles.Adam was first formed, then Eve. 1 Tim. ii. 13.At first, At the first, at the beginning or origin.-- First or last, at one time or another; at the beginning or end.And all are fools and lovers first or last. Dryden.
FIRST-CLASS
Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division;of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope. First-class car or First-class railway carriage, any passenger car of thehighest regular class, and intended for passengers who pay thehighest regular rate; -- distinguished from a second-class car.
FIRST-HAND
Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence,without the intervention of an agent.One sphere there is . . . where the apprehension of him is first-handand direct; and that is the sphere of our own mind. J. Martineau.
FIRST-RATE
Of the highest excellence; preรซminent in quality, size, orestimation.Our only first-rate body of contemporary poetry is the German. M.Arnold.Hermocrates . . . a man of first-rate ability. Jowett (Thucyd).
FIRSTBORN
First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest;hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted.
FIRSTLING
Firstborn.All the firstling males. Deut. xv. 19.
FIRSTLY
In the first place; before anything else; -- sometimesimproperly used for first.
FIRTH
An arm of the sea; a frith.
FISC
A public or state treasury. Burke.
FISCAL
Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.The fiscal arreangements of government. A. Hamilton.
FISETIC
Pertaining to fustet or fisetin.
FISETIN
A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, andregarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fiseticacid.
FISH
A counter, used in various games.
FISH-BELLIED
Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-belliedrail. Knight.
FISH-BLOCK
See Fish-tackle.
FISH-TACKLE
A tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor upto the gunwale. The block used is called the fish-block.
FISH-TAIL
Like the of a fish; acting, or producing something, like thetail of a fish. Fish-tail burner, a gas burner that gives a spreadingflame shaped somewhat like the tail of a fish.-- Fish-tail propeller (Steamship), a propeller with a single bladethat oscillates like the tail of a fish when swimming.
FISHER
A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela Canadensis);the pekan; the "black cat."
FISHERMAN
A ship or vessel employed in the business of taking fish, as inthe cod fishery.
FISHERY
The right to take fish at a certain place, or in particularwaters. Abbott.
FISHFUL
Abounding with fish. [R.] "My fishful pond." R. Carew.
FISHGIG
A spear with barbed prongs used for harpooning fish. Knight.
FISHHAWK
The osprey (Pandion haliaรซtus), found both in Europe andAmerica; -- so called because it plunges into the water and seizesfishes in its talons. Called also fishing eagle, and bald buzzard.
FISHHOOK
A hook with a pendant, to the end of which the fish-tackle ishooked. Dana.
FISHIFY
To change to fish. [R.] Shak.
FISHINESS
The state or quality of being fishy or fishlike. Pennant.
FISHING
Pertaining to fishing; used in fishery; engaged in fishing; as,fishing boat; fishing tackle; fishing village. Fishing fly, anartificial fly for fishing.-- Fishing line, a line used in catching fish.-- Fishing net, a net of various kinds for catching fish; includingthe bag net, casting net, drag net, landing net, seine, shrimpingnet, trawl, etc.-- Fishing rod, a long slender rod, to which is attached the linefor angling.-- Fishing smack, a sloop or other small vessel used in sea fishing.-- Fishing tackle, apparatus used in fishing, as hook, line, rod,etc.-- Fishing tube (Micros.), a glass tube for selecting a microscopicobject in a fluid.
FISHLIKE
Like fish; suggestive of fish; having some of the qualities offish.A very ancient and fishlike smell. Shak.
FISHMONGER
A dealer in fish.
FISHSKIN
See Ichthyosis.
FISHWIFE
A fishwoman.
FISHWOMAN
A woman who retails fish.
FISK
To run about; to frisk; to whisk. [Obs.]He fisks abroad, and stirreth up erroneous opinions. Latimer.
FISSIGEMMATION
A process of reproduction intermediate between fission andgemmation.
FISSILE
Capable of being split, cleft, or divided in the direction ofthe grain, like wood, or along natural planes of cleavage, likecrystals.This crystal is a pellucid, fissile stone. Sir I. Newton.
FISSILINGUAL
Having the tongue forked.
FISSILINGUIA
A group of Lacertilia having the tongue forked, including thecommon lizards. [Written also Fissilingues.]
FISSILITY
Quality of being fissile.
FISSION
A method of asexual reproduction among the lowest (unicellular)organisms by means of a process of self-division, consisting ofgradual division or cleavage of the into two parts, each of whichthen becomes a separate and independent organisms; as when a cell inan animal or plant, or its germ, undergoes a spontaneous division,and the parts again subdivide. See Segmentation, and Cell division,under Division.
FISSIPALMATE
Semipalmate and loboped, as a grebe's foot. See Illust. underAves.
FISSIPARA
Animals which reproduce by fission.
FISSIPARISM
Reproduction by spontaneous fission.
FISSIPARITY
Quality of being fissiparous; fissiparism.
FISSIPAROUS
Reproducing by spontaneous fission. See Fission.-- Fis*sip"a*rous*ly, adv.
FISSIPATION
Reproduction by fission; fissiparism.
FISSIPED
One of the Fissipedia.
FISSIPEDIA
A division of the Carnivora, including the dogs, cats, andbears, in which the feet are not webbed; -- opposed to Pinnipedia.
FISSIROSTRAL
Having the bill cleft beyond the horny part, as in the case ofswallows and goatsuckers.
FISSIROSTRES
A group of birds having the bill deeply cleft.
FISSURAL
Pertaining to a fissure or fissures; as, the fissural patternof a brain.
FISSURATION
The act of dividing or opening; the state of being fissured.
FISSURE
A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; acleft; as, the fissure of a rock. Cerebral fissures (Anat.), thefurrows or clefts by which the surface of the cerebrum is divided;esp., the furrows first formed by the infolding of the whole wall ofthe cerebrum.-- Fissure needle (Surg.), a spiral needle for catching together thegaping lips of wounds. Knight.-- Fissure of rolando (Anat.), the furrow separating the frontalfrom the parietal lobe in the cerebrum.-- Fissure of Sylvius (Anat.), a deep cerebral fissure separatingthe frontal from the temporal lobe. See Illust. under Brain.-- Fissure vein (Mining), a crack in the earth's surface filled withmineral matter. Raymond.
FISSURELLA
A genus of marine gastropod mollusks, having a conical orlimpetlike shell, with an opening at the apex; -- called also keyholelimpet.
FIST
the index mark [], used to direct special attention to thepassage which follows. Hand over fist (Naut.), rapidly; hand overhand.
FISTIC
Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists;puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes. [Colloq.]
FISTICUFF
A cuff or blow with the fist or hand; (pl.)
FISTINUT
A pistachio nut. [Obs.] Johnson.
FISTUCA
An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles.
FISTULA
A permanent abnormal opening into the soft parts with aconstant discharge; a deep, narrow, chronic abscess; an abnormalopening between an internal cavity and another cavity or the surface;as, a salivary fistula; an anal fistula; a recto-vaginal fistula.Incomplete fistula (Med.), a fistula open at one end only.
FISTULAR
Hollow and cylindrical, like a pipe or reed. Johnson.
FISTULARIA
A genus of fishes, having the head prolonged into a tube, withthe mouth at the extremity.
FISTULARIOID
Like or pertaining to the genus Fistularia.
FISTULATE
To make hollow or become hollow like a fistula, or pipe. [Obs.]"A fistulated ulcer." Fuller.
FISTULE
A fistula.
FISTULIFORM
Of a fistular form; tubular; pipe-shaped.Stalactite often occurs fistuliform. W. Philips.
FISTULOSE
Formed like a fistula; hollow; reedlike. Craig.
FIT
imp. & p. p. of Fight. [Obs. or Colloq.]
FITCH
A vetch. [Obs.]
FITCHE
Sharpened to a point; pointed. Cross fitchรฉ, a cross having thelower arm pointed.
FITCHED
Fitchรฉ. [Also fiched.]
FITCHY
Having fitches or vetches.
FITFUL
Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable.After life's fitful fever, he sleeps well. Shak.-- Fit"ful*ly, adv.-- Fit"ful*ness, n.The victorius trumpet peal Dies fitfully away. Macaulay.
FITLY
In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maximfitly applied.
FITMENT
The act of fitting; that which is proper or becoming;equipment. [Obs.] Shak.
FITNESS
The state or quality of being fit; as, the fitness of measuresor laws; a person's fitness for office.
FITT
See 2d Fit.
FITTABLE
Suitable; fit. [Obs.] Sherwood.
FITTEDNESS
The state or quality of being fitted; adaptation. [Obs.] Dr. H.More.
FITTER
A little piece; a flitter; a flinder. [Obs.]Where's the Frenchman Alas, he's all fitters. Beau. & Fl.
FITTING
Anything used in fitting up; especially (pl.),
FITWEED
A plant (Eryngium foetidum) supposed to be a remedy for fits.
FITZ
A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp.of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as,Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke ofClarence.
FIVE
Four and one added; one more than four.
FIVE-FINGER
See Cinquefoil.
FIVE-LEAF
Cinquefoil; five-finger.
FIVE-TWENTIES
Five-twenty bonds of the United States (bearing six per centinterest), issued in 1862, '64, and '65, redeemable after five andpayable in twenty years.
FIVEFOLD
In fives; consisting of five in one; five repeated; quintuple.
FIVELING
A compound or twin crystal consisting of five individuals.
FIVES
A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; -- so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game.Smart. Fives court, a place for playing fives.
FIX
Fixed; solidified. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FIXABLE
Capable of being fixed.
FIXATIVE
That which serves to set or fix colors or drawings, as amordant.
FIXED
Stable; non-volatile. Fixed air (Old Chem.), carbonic acid orcarbon dioxide; -- so called by Dr. Black because it can be absorbedor fixed by strong bases. See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.-- Fixed alkali (Old Chem.), a non-volatile base, as soda, orpotash, in distinction from the volatile alkali ammonia.-- Fixed ammunition (Mil.), a projectile and powder inclosedtogether in a case ready for loading.-- Fixed battery (Mil.), a battery which contains heavy guns andmortars intended to remain stationary; -- distinguished from movablebattery.-- Fixed bodies, those which can not be volatilized or separated bya common menstruum, without great difficulty, as gold, platinum,lime, etc.-- Fixed capital. See the Note under Capital, n., 4.-- Fixed fact, a well established fact. [Colloq.] -- Fixed light,one which emits constant beams; -- distinguished from a flashing,revolving, or intermittent light.-- Fixed oils (Chem.), non-volatile, oily substances, as stearineand olein, which leave a permanent greasy stain, and which can not bedistilled unchanged; -- distinguished from volatile or essentialoils.-- Fixed pivot (Mil.), the fixed point about which any line oftroops wheels.-- Fixed stars (Astron.), such stars as always retain nearly thesame apparent position and distance with respect to each other, thusdistinguished from planets and comets.
FIXEDLY
In a fixed, stable, or constant manner.
FIXIDITY
Fixedness. [Obs.] Boyle.
FIXING
Arrangements; embellishments; trimmings; accompaniments.[Colloq. U.S.]
FIXTURE
Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands,so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quitefrequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed tolands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, orhis personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same thingsmay be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures underothers. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Bouvier.
FIXURE
Fixed position; stable condition; firmness. [Obs.] Shak.
FIZGIG
A fishing spear. [Obs.] Sandys.
FIZZ
To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse.
FIZZLE
A failure or abortive effort. [Colloq.]
FJORD
See Fiord.
FLABBERGAST
To astonish; to strike with wonder, esp. by extraordinarystatements. [Jocular] Beaconsfield.
FLABBERGASTATION
The state of being flabbergasted. [Jocular] London Punch.
FLABBILY
In a flabby manner.
FLABBINESS
Quality or state of being flabby.
FLABBY
Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hangingloose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh.
FLABEL
A fan. [Obs.] Huloet.
FLABELLATE
Flabelliform.
FLABELLATION
The act of keeping fractured limbs cool by the use of a fan orsome other contrivance. Dunglison.
FLABELLIFORM
Having the form of a fan; fan-shaped; flabellate.
FLABELLINERVED
Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base; -- saidof a leaf.
FLABELLUM
A fan; especially, the fan carried before the pope on stateoccasions, made in ostrich and peacock feathers. Shipley.
FLABILE
Liable to be blown about. Bailey.
FLACCID
Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; softand weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle;flaccid flesh.Religious profession . . . has become flacced. I. Taylor.-- Flac"cid*ly, adv.-- Flac"cid*ness, n.
FLACCIDITY
The state of being flaccid.
FLACHERIE
A bacterial disease of silkworms, supposed to be due to eatingcontaminated mulberry leaves.
FLACKER
To flutter, as a bird. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
FLACKET
A barrel-shaped bottle; a flagon.
FLACON
A small glass bottle; as, a flacon for perfume. "Two glassflacons for the ink." Longfellow.
FLAG
An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging toeither of the genera Iris and Acorus. Cooper's flag, the cat-tail(Typha latifolia), the long leaves of which are placed between thestaves of barrels to make the latter water-tight.-- Corn flag. See under 2d Corn.-- Flag broom, a coarse of broom, originally made of flags orrushes.-- Flag root, the root of the sweet flag.-- Sweet flag. See Calamus, n., 2.
FLAGELLANT
One of a fanatical sect which flourished in Europe in the 13thand 14th centuries, and maintained that flagellation was of equalvirtue with baptism and the sacrament; -- called also disciplinant.
FLAGELLATA
An order of Infusoria, having one or two long, whiplike cilia,at the anterior end. It includes monads. See Infusoria, and Monad.
FLAGELLATE
To whip; to scourge; to flog.
FLAGELLATION
A beating or flogging; a whipping; a scourging. Garth.
FLAGELLATOR
One who practices flagellation; one who whips or scourges.
FLAGELLIFORM
Shaped like a whiplash; long, slender, round, flexible, and(comming) tapering.
FLAGELLUM
A young, flexible shoot of a plant; esp., the long trailingbranch of a vine, or a slender branch in certain mosses.
FLAGEOLET
A small wooden pipe, having six or more holes, and a mouthpieceinserted at one end. It produces a shrill sound, softer than of thepiccolo flute, and is said to have superseded the old recorder.Flageolet tones (Mus.), the naturel harmonics or overtones ofstringed instruments.
FLAGGINESS
The condition of being flaggy; laxity; limberness. Johnson.
FLAGGING
A pavement or sidewalk of flagstones; flagstones, collectively.
FLAGGY
Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh.
FLAGITATE
To importune; to demand fiercely or with passion. [Archaic]Carcyle.
FLAGITATION
Importunity; urgent demand. [Archaic] Carlyle.
FLAGMAN
One who makes signals with a flag.
FLAGON
A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveyingliquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather orstoneware rather than of glass.A trencher of mutton chops, and a flagon of ale. Macaulay.
FLAGRANCE
Flagrancy. Bp. Hall.
FLAGRANTLY
In a flagrant manner.
FLAGRATE
To burn. [Obs.] Greenhill.
FLAGRATION
A conflagration. [Obs.]
FLAGSHIP
The vessel which carries the commanding officer of a fleet orsquadron and flies his distinctive flag or pennant.
FLAGSTAFF
A staff on which a flag is hoisted.
FLAGSTONE
A flat stone used in paving, or any rock which will split intosuch stones. See Flag, a stone.
FLAGWORM
A worm or grub found among flags and sedge.
FLAILY
Acting like a flail. [Obs.] Vicars.
FLAIN
p. p. of Flay. Chaucer.
FLAKE
A small stage hung over a vessel's side, for workmen to standon in calking, etc.
FLAKINESS
The state of being flaky.
FLAKY
Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, orcleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.What showers of mortal hail, what flaky fires! Watts.A flaky weight of winter's purest snows. Wordsworth.
FLAM
A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext;deception; delusion. [Obs.]A perpetual abuse and flam upon posterity. South.
FLAMBE
Decorated by glaze splashed or irregularly spread upon thesurface, or apparently applied at the top and allowed to run down thesides; -- said of pieces of Chinese porcelain.
FLAMBEAU
A flaming torch, esp. one made by combining together a numberof thick wicks invested with a quick-burning substance (anciently,perhaps, wax; in modern times, pitch or the like); hence, any torch.
FLAMBOYANT
Characterized by waving or flamelike curves, as in the traceryof windows, etc.; -- said of the later (15th century) French Gothicstyle.
FLAMBOYER
A name given in the East and West Indies to certain trees withbrilliant blossoms, probably species of Cรฆsalpinia.
FLAME
To kindle; to inflame; to excite.And flamed with zeal of vengeance inwardly. Spenser.
FLAME-COLORED
Of the color of flame; of a bright orange yellow color. Shak.
FLAMELESS
Destitute of flame. Sandys.
FLAMELET
A small flame.The flamelets gleamed and flickered. Longfellow.
FLAMEN
A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whomhe received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those ofJupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis,Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis.Affrights the flamens at their service quaint. Milton.
FLAMINEOUS
Pertaining to a flamen; flaminical.
FLAMINGLY
In a flaming manner.
FLAMINGO
Any bird of the genus Phoenicopterus. The flamingoes havewebbed feet, very long legs, and a beak bent down as if broken. Theircolor is usually red or pink. The American flamingo is P. ruber; theEuropean is P. antiquorum.
FLAMINICAL
Pertaining to a flamen. Milton.
FLAMMABILITY
The quality of being flammable; inflammability. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
FLAMMABLE
Inflammable. [Obs.]
FLAMMATION
The act of setting in a flame or blaze. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne.
FLAMMEOUS
Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame. [Obs.] SirT. Browne.
FLAMMIFEROUS
Producing flame.
FLAMMIVOMOUS
Vomiting flames, as a volcano. W. Thompson. (1745).
FLAMMULATED
Of a reddish color.
FLAMY
Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame.Pope.
FLANCH
A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching onthe field from the side.
FLANCHED
Having flanches; -- said of an escutcheon with those bearings.
FLANCONADE
A thrust in the side.
FLANERIE
Lit., strolling; sauntering; hence, aimless; idleness; as,intellectual flรขnerie.
FLANEUR
One who strolls about aimlessly; a lounger; a loafer.
FLANG
A miner's two-pointed pick.
FLANGE
To make a flange on; to furnish with a flange.
FLANGED
Having a flange or flanges; as, a flanged wheel.
FLANK
That part of a bastion which reaches from the curtain to theface, and defends the curtain, the flank and face of the oppositebastion; any part of a work defending another by a fire along theoutside of its parapet. See Illust. of Bastion.
FLANKER
One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body oftroops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march,or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body.They threw out flankers, and endeavored to dislodge their assailants.W. Irwing.
FLANNEL
A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture. Shak. Adam'sflannel. (Bot.) See under Adam.-- Canton flannel, Cotton flannel. See Cotton flannel, under Cotton.
FLANNELED
Covered or wrapped in flannel.
FLANNEN
Made or consisting of flannel. [Obs.] "Flannen robes." Dryden.
FLAP
Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attachedby one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment.A cartilaginous flap upon the opening of the larynx. Sir T. Browne.
FLAP-EARED
Having broad, loose, dependent ears. Shak.
FLAP-MOUTHED
Having broad, hangling lips. [R.] Shak.
FLAPDRAGON
To swallow whole, as a flapdragon; to devour. [Obs.]See how the sea flapdragoned it. Shak.
FLARE
Leaf of lard. "Pig's flare." Dunglison.
FLARE-UP
A sudden burst of anger or passion; an angry dispute. [Colloq.]
FLARINGLY
In a flaring manner.
FLASH
To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of adifferent color. See Flashing, n., 3 (b).
FLASH BOILER
A variety of water-tube boiler, used chiefly in steamautomobiles, consisting of a nest of strong tubes with very littlewater space, kept nearly red hot so that the water as it tricklesdrop by drop into the tubes is immediately flashed into steam andsuperheated.
FLASH BURNER
A gas burner with a device for lighting by an electric spark.
FLASHBOARD
A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the waterin the pond above its usual level; a flushboard. [U.S.]
FLASHILY
In a flashy manner; with empty show.
FLASHINESS
The quality of being flashy.
FLASHING
The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in ofa body of water; -- called also flushing.
FLASK
The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., formingthe mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz.,the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag,or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask iscalled a three part flask, four part flask, etc. Erlenmeyer flask, athin glass flask, flat-bottomed and cone-shaped to allow of safelyshaking its contents laterally without danger of spilling; -- socalled from Erlenmeyer, a German chemist who invented it.-- Florence flask. Etym: [From Florence in Italy.] (a) Same asBetty, n., 3. (b) A glass flask, round or pear-shaped, with round orflat bottom, and usually very thin to allow of heating solutions.-- Pocket flask, a kind of pocket dram bottle, often covered withmetal or leather to protect it from breaking.
FLAT
Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points ofprominence and striking interest.A large part of the work is, to me, very flat. Coleridge.
FLAT FOOT
A foot in which the arch of the instep is flattened so that theentire sole of the foot rests upon the ground; also, the deformity,usually congential, exhibited by such a foot; splayfoot.
FLAT-BOTTOMED
Having an even lower surface or bottom; as, a flat-bottomedboat.
FLAT-CAP
A kind of low-crowned cap formerly worn by all classes inEngland, and continued in London after disuse elsewhere; -- hence, acitizen of London. Marston.
FLAT-HEADED
Having a head with a flattened top; as, a flat-headed nail.
FLATBILL
Any bird of the genus Flatyrynchus. They belong to the familyof flycatchers.
FLATBOAT
A boat with a flat bottom and square ends; -- used for thetransportation of bulky freight, especially in shallow waters.
FLATFISH
Any fish of the family Pleuronectidรฆ; esp., the winter flounder(Pleuronectes Americanus). The flatfishes have the body flattened,swim on the side, and have eyes on one side, as the flounder, turbot,and halibut. See Flounder.
FLATHEAD
Characterized by flatness of head, especially that produced byartificial means, as a certain tribe of American Indians.
FLATIRON
An iron with a flat, smooth surface for ironing clothes.
FLATIVE
Producing wind; flatulent. [Obs.] A. Brewer.
FLATLING
With the flat side, as of a sword; flatlong; in a prostrateposition. [Obs.] Spenser.
FLATLONG
; 115), adv. With the flat side downward; not edgewise. Shak.
FLATLY
In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully;frigidly; peremptori;y; positively, plainly. "He flatly refused hisaid." Sir P. Sidney.He that does the works of religion slowly, flatly, and withoutappetite. Jer. Taylor.
FLATOUR
A flatterer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FLATTEN
To lower the pitch of; to cause to sound less sharp; to letfall from the pitch. To flatten a sail (Naut.), to set it more nearlyfore-and-aft of the vessel.-- Flattening oven, in glass making, a heated chamber in which splitglass cylinders are flattened for window glass.
FLATTER
To use flattery or insincere praise.If it may stand him more in stead to lie, Say and unsay, feign,flatter, or adjure. Milton.
FLATTERER
One who flatters.The most abject flaterers degenerate into the greatest tyrants.Addison.
FLATTERING
That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, aflattering speech.Lay not that flattering unction to your soul. Shak.A flattering painter, who made it his care, To draw men as they oughtbe, not as they are. Goldsmith.
FLATTERINGLY
With flattery.
FLATTERY
The act or practice of flattering; the act of pleasing byartiful commendation or compliments; adulation; false, insincere, orexcessive praise.Just praise is only a debt, but flattery is a present. Rambler.Flattery corrupts both the receiver and the giver. Burke.
FLATTISH
Somewhat flat. Woodward.
FLATULENTLY
In a flatulent manner; with flatulence.
FLATUOSITY
Flatulence. [Obs.] Bacon.
FLATUOUS
Windy; generating wind. [Obs.] Bacon.
FLATWARE
Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are moreor less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.
FLATWISE
With the flat side downward, or next to another object; notedgewise.
FLATWORM
Any worm belonging to the Plathelminthes; also, sometimesapplied to the planarians.
FLAUNDRISH
Flemish. [Obs.]
FLAUNT
To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as,a flaunting show.You flaunt about the streets in your new gilt chariot. Arbuthnot.One flaunts in rags, one flutters in brocade. Pope.
FLAUNTINGLY
In a flaunting way.
FLAUTIST
A player on the flute; a flutist.
FLAUTO
A flute. Flaute piccolo ( Etym: [It., little flute], an octaveflute.-- Flauto traverso ( Etym: [It., transverse flute], the Germanflute, held laterally, instead of being played, like the old flรปte abec, with a mouth piece at the end.
FLAVANILINE
A yellow, crystalline, organic dyestuff, C16H14N2, of artificalproduction. It is a strong base, and is a complex derivative ofaniline and quinoline.
FLAVESCENT
Turning yellow; yellowish.
FLAVICOMOUS
Having yellow hair. [R.]
FLAVIN
A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron.
FLAVINE
A yellow, crystalline, organic base, C13H12N2O, obtainedartificially.
FLAVOL
A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone,and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it.
FLAVOR
To give flavor to; to add something (as salt or a spice) to, togive character or zest.
FLAVORED
Having a distinct flavor; as, high-flavored wine.
FLAVORLESS
Without flavor; tasteless.
FLAVOROUS
Imparting flavor; pleasant to the taste or smell; sapid.Dryden.
FLAVOUS
Yellow. [Obs.]
FLAWLESS
Free from flaws. Boyle.
FLAWN
A sort of flat custard or pie. [Obs.] Tusser.
FLAWTER
To scrape o [Obs.] Johnson.
FLAX
A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, whichhas a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blueflowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth,called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed fromthe seed.
FLAX-PLANT
A plant in new Zealand (Phormium tenax), allied to the liliesand aloes. The leaves are two inches wide and several feet long, andfurnish a fiber which is used for making ropes, mats, and coarsecloth.
FLAXEN
Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color offlax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax ortow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair.
FLAXSEED
The seed of the flax; linseed.
FLAXWEED
See Toadflax.
FLAXY
Like flax; flaxen. Sir M. Sandys.
FLAY
To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay anox; to flay the green earth.With her nails She 'll flay thy wolfish visage. Shak.
FLAYER
One who strips off the skin.
FLEA
To flay. [Obs.]He will be fleaced first And horse collars made of's skin. J.Fletcher.
FLEA-BEETLE
A small beetle of the family Halticidรฆ, of many species. Theyhave strong posterior legs and leap like fleas. The turnip flea-beetle (Phyllotreta vittata) and that of the grapevine (Graptoderachalybea) are common injurious species.
FLEA-LOUSE
A jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidรฆ, of many species.That of the pear tree is Psylla pyri.
FLEABANE
One of various plants, supposed to have efficacy in drivingaway fleas. They belong, for the most part, to the genera Conyza,Erigeron, and Pulicaria.
FLEAGH
imp. of Fly.
FLEAK
A flake; a thread or twist. [Obs.]Little long fleaks or threads of hemp. Dr. H. More.
FLEAKING
A light covering of reeds, over which the main covering islaid, in thatching houses. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
FLEAM
A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.;a kind of lancet. Fleam tooth, a tooth of a saw shaped like anisosceles triangle; a peg tooth. Knight.
FLEAMY
Bloody; clotted. [Obs. or Prov.]Foamy bubbling of a fleamy brain. Marston.
FLEAR
See Fleer.
FLEAWORT
An herb used in medicine (Plantago Psyllium), named from theshape of its seeds. Loudon.
FLECHE
A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salientangle pointing outward and open at the gorge.
FLECK
A flake; also, a lock, as of wool. [Obs.] J. Martin.
FLECKER
To fleck. Johnson.
FLECKLESS
Without spot or blame. [R.]My consnience will not count me fleckless. Tennyson.
FLECTIONAL
Capable of, or pertaining to, flection or inflection.A flectional word is a phrase in the bud. Earle.
FLECTOR
A flexor.
FLED
imp. & p. p. of Flee.
FLEDGE
Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly.Hfledge with wings. Milton.
FLEDGELING
A young bird just fledged.
FLEE
To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed orcowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from. This issometimes omitted, making the verb transitive.[He] cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke. Shak.Flee fornication. 1 Cor. vi. 18.So fled his enemies my warlike father. Shak.
FLEECE
The fine web of cotton or wool removed by the doffing knifefrom the cylinder of a carding machine. Fleece wool, wool shorn fromthe sheep.-- Golden fleece. See under Golden.
FLEECELESS
Without a fleece.
FLEECER
One who fleeces or strips unjustly, especially by trickery orfraund. Prynne.
FLEECY
Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece. "Fleecyflocks." Prior.
FLEEN
Obs. pl. of Flea. Chaucer.
FLEER
One who flees. Ld. Berners.
FLEERER
One who fleers. Beau. & Fl.
FLEERINGLY
In a fleering manner.
FLEET
To slip on the whelps or the barrel of a capstan or windlass; -- said of a cable or hawser.
FLEET-FOOT
Swift of foot. Shak.
FLEETEN
Fleeted or skimmed milk. [Obs.] Fleeten face, a face of thecolor of fleeten, i. e., blanched; hence, a coward. "You know whereyou are, you fleeten face." Beau. & Fl.
FLEETING
Passing swiftly away; not durable; transient; transitory; as,the fleeting hours or moments.
FLEETINGLY
In a fleeting manner; swiftly.
FLEETINGS
A mixture of buttermilk and boiling whey; curds. [prov. Eng.]Wright.
FLEETLY
In a fleet manner; rapidly.
FLEETNESS
Swiftness; rapidity; velocity; celerity; speed; as, thefleetness of a horse or of time.
FLEIGH
imp. of Fly. Chaucer.
FLEME
To banish; to drive out; to expel. [Obs.] "Appetite flemethdiscretion." Chaucer.
FLEMER
One who, or that which, banishes or expels. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FLEMING
A native or inhabitant of Flanders.
FLEMISH
Pertaining to Flanders, or the Flemings.-- n.
FLENCH
Same as Flence.
FLENSE
To strip the blubber or skin from, as from a whale, seal, etc.the flensed carcass of a fur seal. U. S. Census (1880).
FLESH
To remove flesh, membrance, etc., from, as from hides.
FLESHHOOD
The state or condition of having a form of flesh; incarnation.[R.]Thou, who hast thyself Endured this fleshhood. Mrs. Browning.
FLESHINESS
The state of being fleshy; plumpness; corpulence; grossness.Milton.
FLESHINGS
Flesh-colored tights, worn by actors dancers. D. Jerrold.
FLESHLESS
Destitute of flesh; lean. Carlyle.
FLESHLINESS
The state of being fleshly; carnal passions and appetites.Spenser.
FLESHLING
A person devoted to fleshly things. [Obs.] Spenser.
FLESHLY
In a fleshly manner; carnally; lasciviously. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FLESHMENT
The act of fleshing, or the excitement attending a successfulbeginning. [R.] Shak.
FLESHMONGER
One who deals in flesh; hence, a pimp; a procurer; a pander.[R.] Shak.
FLESHPOT
A pot or vessel in which flesh is cooked; hence (pl.),
FLESHQUAKE
A quaking or trembling of the flesh; a quiver. [Obs.] B.Jonson.
FLESHY
Composed of firm pulp; succulent; as, the houseleek, cactus,and agave are fleshy plants.
FLET
Skimmed. [Obs.]
FLETCH
To feather, as an arrow. Bp. Warburton.[Congress] fletched their complaint, by adding: "America loved hisbrother." Bancroft.
FLETCHER
One who fletches of feathers arrows; a manufacturer of bows andarrows. [Obs.] Mortimer.
FLETE
To float; to swim. [Obs.] "Whether I sink or flete." Chaucer.
FLETIFEROUS
Producing tears. [Obs.] Blount.
FLEUR-DE-LIS
The iris. See Flower-de-luce.
FLEURON
A flower-shaped ornament, esp. one terminating an object orforming one of a series, as a knob of a cover to a dish, or a flower-shaped part in a necklace.
FLEURY
Finished at the ends with fleurs-de-lis; -- said esp. a crossso decorated.
FLEW
imp. of Fly.
FLEWED
Having large flews. Shak.
FLEWS
The pendulous or overhanging lateral parts of the upper lip ofdogs, especially prominent in hounds; -- called also chaps. SeeIllust. of Bloodhound.
FLEX
To bend; as, to flex the arm.
FLEXANIMOUS
Having power to change the mind. [Obs.] Howell.
FLEXIBILITY
The state or quality of being flexible; flexibleness; pliancy;pliability; as, the flexibility of strips of hemlock, hickory,whalebone or metal, or of rays of light. Sir I. Newton.All the flexibility of a veteran courtier. Macaulay.
FLEXICOSTATE
Having bent or curved ribs.
FLEXILE
Flexible; pliant; pliable; easily bent; plastic; tractable.Wordsworth.
FLEXION
Syntactical change of form of words, as by declension orconjugation; inflection.Express the syntactical relations by flexion. Sir W. Hamilton.
FLEXOR
A muscle which bends or flexes any part; as, the flexors of thearm or the hand; -- opposed to extensor.
FLEXUOSE
Flexuous.
FLEXUOUS
Having alternate curvatures in opposite directions; bent in azigzag manner.
FLEXURAL
Of, pertaining to, or resulting from, flexure; of the natureof, or characterized by, flexure; as, flexural elasticity.
FLEXURE
The last joint, or bend, of the wing of a bird.
FLIBBERGIB
A sycophant. [Obs. & Humorous.] "Flatterers and flibbergibs."Latimer.
FLIBBERTIGIBBET
An imp. Shak.
FLIBUSTIER
A buccaneer; an American pirate. See Flibuster. [Obs.]
FLICK
To whip lightly or with a quick jerk; to flap; as, to flick ahorse; to flick the dirt from boots. Thackeray.
FLICKER
The golden-winged woodpecker (Colaptes aurutus); -- so calledfrom its spring note. Called also yellow-hammer, high-holder, pigeonwoodpecker, and yucca.The cackle of the flicker among the oaks. Thoureau.
FLICKERINGLY
In a flickering manner.
FLICKERMOUSE
See Flittermouse.
FLIDGE
Fledged; fledge. [Obs.] Holland.
FLIER
A fly. See Fly, n., 9, and 13 (b).
FLIGHT-SHOT
The distance to which an arrow or flight may be shot; bowshot,-- about the fifth of a mile. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]Within a flight-shot it inthe valley. Evelyn.Half a flight-shot from the king's oak. Sir W. Scott.
FLIGHTED
Feathered; -- said of arrows.
FLIGHTER
A horizontal vane revolving over the surface of wort in acooler, to produce a circular current in the liquor. Knight.
FLIGHTILY
In a flighty manner.
FLIGHTINESS
The state or quality of being flighty.The flightness of her temper. Hawthorne.
FLIMFLAM
A freak; a trick; a lie. Beau. & Fl.
FLIMSILY
In a flimsy manner.
FLIMSINESS
The state or quality of being flimsy.
FLIMSY
Weak; feeble; limp; slight; vain; without strength or solidity;of loose and unsubstantial structure; without reason or plausibility;as, a flimsy argument, excuse, objection.Proud of a vast extent of flimsy lines. Pope.All the flimsy furniture of a country miss's brain. Sheridan.
FLINCH
To let the foot slip from a ball, when attempting to give atight croquet.
FLINCHER
One who flinches or fails.
FLINCHINGLY
In a flinching manner.
FLINDERMOUSE
A bat; a flittermouse.
FLINDERS
Small pieces or splinters; fragments.The tough ash spear, so stout and true, Into a thousand flindersflew. Sir W. Scott.
FLINGDUST
One who kicks up the dust; a streetwalker; a low manner. [Obs.]Beau. & Fl.
FLINGER
One who flings; one who jeers.
FLINT
A massive, somewhat impure variety of quartz, in color usuallyof a gray to brown or nearly black, breaking with a conchoidalfracture and sharp edge. It is very hard, and strikes fire withsteel.
FLINT GLASS
A soft, heavy, brilliant glass, consisting essentially of asilicate of lead and potassium. It is used for tableware, and foroptical instruments, as prisms, its density giving a high degree ofdispersive power; -- so called, because formerly the silica wasobtained from pulverized flints. Called also crystal glass. Cf.Glass.
FLINT-HEARTED
Hard-hearted. Shak.
FLINTINESS
The state or quality of being flinty; hardness; cruelty. Beau.& Fl.
FLINTWARE
A superior kind of earthenware into whose composition flintenters largely. Knight.
FLINTWOOD
An Australian name for the very hard wood of the Eucalyptuspiluralis.
FLINTY
Consisting of, composed of, abounding in, or resembling, flint;as, a flinty rock; flinty ground; a flinty heart. Flinty rockFlintystate, a siliceous slate; -- basanite is here included. See Basanite.
FLIP
A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hotiron. Flip dog, an iron used, when heated, to warm flip.
FLIP-FLAP
The repeated stroke of something long and loose. Johnson.
FLIPE
To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, asa stocking in pulling off or for putting on. [Scot.]
FLIPPANCY
The state or quality of being flippant.This flippancy of language. Bp. Hurd.
FLIPPANT
A flippant person. [R.] Tennyson.
FLIPPANTLY
In a flippant manner.
FLIPPANTNESS
State or quality of being flippant.
FLIPPER
A broad flat limb used for swimming, as those of seals, seaturtles, whales, etc.
FLIRT
One who flirts; esp., a woman who acts with giddiness, or playsat courtship; a coquette; a pert girl.Several young flirts about town had a design to cast us out of thefashionable world. Addison.
FLIRT-GILL
A woman of light behavior; a gill-flirt. [Obs.] Shak.You heard him take me up like a flirt-gill. Beau. & Fl.
FLIRTIGIG
A wanton, pert girl. [Obs.]
FLIRTINGLY
In a flirting manner.
FLISK
To frisk; to skip; to caper. [Obs. Scot.] "The flisking flies."Gosson.
FLIT
Nimble; quick; swift. [Obs.] See Fleet.
FLITE
To scold; to quarrel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
FLITTER
To flutter. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FLITTERMOUSE
A bat; -- called also flickermouse, flindermouse, andflintymouse.
FLITTERN
A term applied to the bark obtained from young oak trees.McElrath.
FLITTINESS
Unsteadiness; levity; lightness. [Obs.] Bp. Hopkins.
FLITTING
Contention; strife; scolding; specif., a kind of metricalcontest between two persons, popular in Scotland in the 16th century.[Obs. or Scot.]
FLITTINGLY
In a flitting manner.
FLITTY
Unstable; fluttering. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
FLIX
Down; fur. [Obs. or Eng.] J. Dyer.
FLO
An arrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FLOAT
A contrivance for affording a copious stream of water to theheated surface of an object of large bulk, as an anvil or die.Knight.
FLOATABLE
That may be floated.
FLOATAGE
Same as Flotage.
FLOATATION
See Flotation.
FLOATING
Floating threads. See Floating threads, above.
FLOATINGLY
In a floating manner.
FLOATY
Swimming on the surface; buoyant; light. Sir W. Raleigh.
FLOBERT
A small cartridge designed for target shooting; -- sometimescalled ball cap. Flobert rifle, a rifle adapted to the use offloberts.
FLOCCILLATION
A delirious picking of bedclothes by a sick person, as if topick off flocks of wool; carphology; -- an alarming symptom in acutediseases. Dunglison.
FLOCCOSE
Having tufts of soft hairs, which are often deciduous.
FLOCCULAR
Of or pertaining to the flocculus.
FLOCCULATE
To aggregate into small lumps.
FLOCCULATION
The process by which small particles of fine soils andsediments aggregate into larger lumps.
FLOCCULENCE
The state of being flocculent.
FLOCCULENT
Applied to the down of newly hatched or unfledged birds.
FLOCCULUS
A small lobe in the under surface of the cerebellum, near themiddle peduncle; the subpeduncular lobe.
FLOCCUS
A woolly filament sometimes occuring with the sporules ofcertain fungi.
FLOCK
To gather in companies or crowds.Friends daily flock. Dryden.Flocking fowl (Zoรถl.), the greater scaup duck.
FLOCKLING
A lamb. [Obs.] Brome (1659).
FLOCKLY
In flocks; in crowds. [Obs.]
FLOCKMEL
In a flock; in a body. [Obs.]That flockmel on a day they to him went. Chaucer.
FLOCKY
Abounding with flocks; floccose.
FLOE
A low, flat mass of floating ice. Floe rat (Zoรถl.), a seal(Phoca foetida).
FLOG
To beat or strike with a rod or whip; to whip; to lash; tochastise with repeated blows.
FLOGGING
from Flog, v. t. Flogging chisel (Mach.), a large cold chisel,used in chipping castings.-- Flogging hammer, a small sledge hammer used for striking aflogging chisel.
FLON
See Flo. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FLONG
imp. & p. p. of Fling.
FLOODAGE
Inundation. [R.] Carlyle.
FLOODER
One who floods anything.
FLOODING
The filling or covering with water or other fluid; overflow;inundation; the filling anything to excess.
FLOOK
A fluke of an anchor.
FLOOKY
Fluky.
FLOOR
That part of the bottom of a vessel on each side of the keelsonwhich is most nearly horizontal.
FLOORAGE
Floor space.
FLOORER
Anything that floors or upsets a person, as a blow that knockshim down; a conclusive answer or retort; a task that exceeds one'sabilities. [Colloq.]
FLOORHEADS
The upper extermities of the floor of a vessel.
FLOORING
A platform; the bottom of a room; a floor; pavement. See Floor,n. Addison.
FLOORLESS
Having no floor.
FLOORWALKER
One who walks about in a large retail store as an overseer anddirector. [U.S.]
FLOP
Act of flopping. [Colloq.] W. H. Russell.
FLOPPY
Having a tendency to flop or flap; as, a floppy hat brim. G.Eliot.
FLOPWING
The lapwing.
FLORA
The goddess of flowers and spring.
FLORAL
Containing, or belonging to, a flower; as, a floral bud; afloral leaf; floral characters. Martyn. Floral envelope (Bot.), thecalyx and corolla, one or the other of which (mostly the corolla) maybe wanting.
FLORALLY
In a floral manner.
FLORAMOUR
The plant love-lies-bleeding. [Obs.] Prior.
FLORAN
Tin ore scarcely perceptible in the stone; tin ore stamped veryfine. Pryce.
FLOREAL
The eight month of the French republican calendar. It beganApril 20, and ended May 19. See Vendรฉmiare.
FLOREN
A cerain gold coin; a Florence. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FLORENTINE
Belonging or relating to Florence, in Italy. Florentine mosaic,a mosaic of hard or semiprecious stones, often so chosen and arrangedthat their natural colors represent leaves, flowers, and the like,inlaid in a background, usually of black or white marble.
FLORESCENCE
A bursting into flower; a blossoming. Martyn.
FLORESCENT
Expanding into flowers; blossoming.
FLORET
A little flower; one of the numerous little flowers whichcompose the head or anthodium in such flowers as the daisy, thistle,and dandelion. Gray.
FLORIAGE
Bloom; blossom. [Obs.] J. Scott.
FLORIATED
Having floral ornaments; as, floriated capitals of Gothicpillars.
FLORICOMOUS
Having the head adorned with flowers. [R.]
FLORICULTURAL
Pertaining to the cultivation of flowering plants.
FLORICULTURE
The cultivation of flowering plants.
FLORICULTURIST
One skilled in the cultivation of flowers; a florist.
FLORID
Flowery; ornamental; running in rapid melodic figures,divisions, or passages, as in variations; full of fioriture or littleornamentations.
FLORIDEAE
A subclass of algรฆ including all the red or purplish seaweeds;the Rhodospermeรฆ of many authors; -- so called from the rosy orflorid color of most of the species.
FLORIDITY
The quality of being florid; floridness. Floyer.
FLORIDLY
In a florid manner.
FLORIDNESS
The quality of being florid. Boyle.
FLORIFEROUS
Producing flowers. Blount.
FLORIFICATION
The act, process, or time of flowering; florescence.
FLORIFORM
Having the form of a flower; flower-shaped.
FLORIKEN
An Indian bustard (Otis aurita). The Bengal floriken isSypheotides Bengalensis. [Written also florikan, floriken, florican.]
FLORILEGE
The act of gathering flowers.
FLORIMER
See Floramour. [Obs.]
FLORIN
A silver coin of Florence, first struck in the twelfth century,and noted for its beauty. The name is given to different coins indifferent countries. The florin of England, first minted in 1849, isworth two shillings, or about 48 cents; the florin of theNetherlands, about 40 cents; of Austria, about 36 cents.
FLOROON
A border worked with flowers. Wright.
FLORULENT
Flowery; blossoming. [Obs.] Blount.
FLOS-FERRI
A variety of aragonite, occuring in delicate white coralloidalforms; -- common in beds of iron ore.
FLOSCULAR
Flosculous.
FLOSCULARIAN
One of a group of stalked rotifers, having ciliated tentaclesaround the lobed disk.
FLOSCULE
A floret.
FLOSCULOUS
Consisting of many gamopetalous florets.
FLOSH
A hopper-shaped box or Knight.
FLOSS
The slender styles of the pistillate flowers of maize; alsocalled silk.
FLOSSIFICATION
A flowering; florification. [R.] Craig.
FLOSSY
Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, floss; hence, light;downy.
FLOTA
A fleet; especially, a
FLOTANT
Represented as flying or streaming in the air; as, a bannerflotant.
FLOTATION PROCESS
A process of separating the substances contained in pulverizedore or the like by depositing the mixture on the  surface of aflowing liquid, the substances that are quickly wet readilyovercoming the surface tension of the liquid and sinking, the othersflowing off in a film or slime on the surface, though, perhaps,having a greater specific gravity than those that sink.
FLOTE
To fleet; to skim. [Obs.] Tusser.
FLOTERY
Wavy; flowing. [Obs.]With flotery beard. Chaucer.
FLOTILLA
A little fleet, or a fleet of small vessels.
FLOTTEN
Skimmed. [Obs.]
FLOUNCE
To throw the limbs and body one way and the other; to spring,turn, or twist with sudden effort or violence; to struggle, as ahorse in mire; to flounder; to throw one's self with a jerk or spasm,often as in displeasure.To flutter and flounce will do nothing but batter and bruise us.Barrow.With his broad fins and forky tail he laves The rising sirge, andflounces in the waves. Addison.
FLOUNDER
A flatfish of the family Pleuronectidรฆ, of many species.
FLOUR
The finely ground meal of wheat, or of any other grain;especially, the finer part of meal separated by bolting; hence, thefine and soft powder of any substance; as, flour of emery; flour ofmustard. Flour bolt, in milling, a gauze-covered, revolving,cylindrical frame or reel, for sifting the flour from the refusecontained in the meal yielded by the stones.-- Flour box a tin box for scattering flour; a dredging box.-- Flour dredge or dredger, a flour box.-- Flour dresser, a mashine for sorting and distributing flouraccording to grades of fineness.-- Flour mill, a mill for grinding and sifting flour.
FLOURED
Finely granulated; -- said of quicksilver which has beengranulated by agitation during the amalgamation process. Raymond.
FLOURISHER
One who flourishes.
FLOURISHINGLY
, adv. In a flourishing manner; ostentatiously.
FLOURY
Of or resembling flour; mealy; covered with flour. Dickens.
FLOUT
To mock or insult; to treat with contempt.Phillida flouts me. Walton.Three gaudy standarts lout the pale blue sky. Byron.
FLOUTER
One who flouts; a mocker.
FLOUTINGLY
With flouting; insultingly; as, to treat a lover floutingly.
FLOW
imp. sing. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer.
FLOWAGE
An overflowing with water; also, the water which thusoverflows.
FLOWEN
imp. pl. of Fly, v. i. Chaucer.
FLOWER
That part of a plant destined to produce seed, and henceincluding one or both of the sexual organs; an organ or combinationof the organs of reproduction, whether inclosed by a circle of foliarparts or not. A complete flower consists of two essential parts, thestamens and the pistil, and two floral envelopes, the corolla andcallyx. In mosses the flowers consist of a few special leavessurrounding or subtending organs called archegonia. See Blossom, andCorolla.
FLOWER STATE
  Florida; -- a nickname, alluding to sense of L. floridus,from florida flowery. See Florid.
FLOWER-DE-LUCE
A genus of perennial herbs (Iris) with swordlike leaves andlarge three-petaled flowers often of very gay colors, but probablywhite in the plant first chosen for the royal French emblem.
FLOWER-FENCE
A tropical leguminous bush (Poinciana, or Cรฆsalpinia,pulcherrima) with prickly branches, and showy yellow or red flowers;-- so named from its having been sometimes used for hedges in theWest Indies. Baird.
FLOWER-GENTLE
A species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus).
FLOWERAGE
State of flowers; flowers, collectively or in general.Tennyson.
FLOWERER
A plant which flowers or blossoms.Many hybrids are profuse and persistent flowerers. Darwin.
FLOWERET
A small flower; a floret. Shak.
FLOWERFUL
Abounding with flowers. Craig.
FLOWERINESS
The state of being flowery.
FLOWERING
Having conspicuous flowers; -- used as an epithet with manynames of plants; as, flowering ash; flowering dogwood; floweringalmond, etc. Flowering fern, a genus of showy ferns (Osmunda), withconspicuous bivalvular sporangia. They usually grow in wet places.-- Flowering plants, plants which have stamens and pistils, andproduce true seeds; phenogamous plants; -- distinguished fromflowerless plants.-- Flowering rush, a European rushlike plant (Butomus umbellatus),with an umbel of rosy blossoms.
FLOWERLESS
Having no flowers. Flowerless plants, plants which have no trueflowers, and produce no seeds; cryptigamous plants.
FLOWERLESSNESS
State of being without flowers.
FLOWERPOT
A vessel, commonly or earthenware, for earth in which plantsare grown.
FLOWERY-KIRTLED
Dressed with garlands of flowers. [Poetic & Rare] Milton.
FLOWING
That flows or for flowing (in various sense of the verb);gliding along smoothly; copious. Flowing battery (Elec.), a batterywhich is kept constant by the flowing of the exciting liquid throughthe cell or cells. Knight.-- Flowing furnace, a furnace from which molten metal, can be drawn,as through a tap hole; a foundry cupola.-- Flowing sheet (Naut.), a sheet when eased off, or loosened to thewind, as when the wind is abaft the beam. Totten.
FLOWINGLY
In a flowing manner.
FLOWINGNESS
Flowing tendency or quality; fluency. [R.] W. Nichols.
FLOWK
See 1st Fluke.
FLOWN
p. p. of Fly; -- often used with the auxiliary verb to be; as,the birds are flown.
FLOXED SILK
See Floss silk, under Floss.
FLOYTE
A variant of Flute. [Obs.]
FLUATE
A fluoride. [Obs.]
FLUAVIL
A hydrocarbon extracted from gutta-percha, as a yellow,resinous substance; -- called also fluanil.
FLUCAN
Soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it. [Writtenalso flookan, flukan, and fluccan.]
FLUCTIFEROUS
Tending to produce waves. Blount.
FLUCTISONOUS
Sounding like waves.
FLUCTUABILITY
The capacity or ability to fluctuate. [R.] H. Walpole.
FLUCTUANT
showing undulation or fluctuation; as, a fluctuant tumor.
FLUCTUATE
To cause to move as a wave; to put in motion. [R.]And fluctuate all the still perfume. Tennyson.
FLUCTUATION
The motion or undulation of a fluid collected in a natural orartifical cavity, which is felt when it is subjected to pressure orpercussion. Dunglison.
FLUE
An inclosed passage way for establishing and directing acurrent of air, gases, etc.; an air passage; esp.:(a) A compartment or division of a chimney for conveying flame andsmoke to the outer air.(b) A passage way for conducting a current of fresh, foul, or heatedair from one place to another.(c) (Steam Boiler) A pipe or passage for conveying flame and hotgases through surrounding water in a boiler; -- distinguished from atube which holds water and is surrounded by fire. Small flues arecalled fire tubes or simply tubes. Flue boiler. See under Boiler.-- Flue bridge, the separating low wall between the flues and thelaboratory of a reverberatory furnace.-- Flue plate (Steam Boiler), a plate to which the ends of the fluesare fastened; -- called also flue sheet, tube sheet, and tube plate.-- Flue surface (Steam Boiler), the aggregate surface of fluesexposed to flame or the hot gases.
FLUE PIPE
A pipe, esp. an organ pipe, whose tone is produced by theimpinging of a current of air upon an edge, or lip, causing a wavemotion in the air within; a mouth pipe; -- distinguished from reedpipe. Flue pipes are either open or closed (stopped at the distantend). The flute and flageolet are open pipes; a bottle acts as aclosed pipe when one blows across the neck. The organ has both openand closed flue pipes, those of metal being usually round in section,and those of wood triangular or square.
FLUENCE
Fluency. [Obs.] Milton.
FLUENCY
The quality of being fluent; smoothness; readiness ofutterance; volubility.The art of expressing with fluency and perspicuity. Macaulay.
FLUENT
A variable quantity, considered as increasing or diminishing; -- called, in the modern calculus, the function or integral.
FLUENTLY
In a fluent manner.
FLUENTNESS
The quality of being fluent.
FLUEWORK
A general name for organ stops in which the sound is caused bywind passing through a flue or fissure and striking an edge above; --in distinction from reedwork.
FLUEY
Downy; fluffy. [R.]
FLUFF
Nap or down; flue; soft, downy feathers.
FLUFFY
Pertaining to, or resembling, fluff or nap; soft and downy."The carpets were fluffy." Thackeray.The present Barnacle . . . had a youthful aspect, and the fluffiestlittle whisker, perhaps, that ever was seen. Dickens.-- Fluff"i*ness, n.
FLUGELMAN
Same as Fugleman.
FLUID
Having particles which easily move and change their relativeposition without a separation of the mass, and which easily yield topressure; capable of flowing; liquid or gaseous.
FLUIDAL
Pertaining to a fluid, or to its flowing motion. Fluidalstructure (Geol.), the structure characteristic of certain volcanicrocks in which the arrangement of the minute crystals shows the linesof flow of thew molten material before solidification; -- also calledfluxion structure.
FLUIDITY
The quality of being fluid or capable of flowing; a liquid,aรซriform. or gaseous state; -- opposed to solidity.It was this want of organization, this looseness and fluidity of thenew movement, that made it penetrate through every class of society.J. R. Green.
FLUIDIZE
To render fluid.
FLUIDNESS
The state of being flluid; fluidity.
FLUIDOUNCE
See Fluid ounce, under Fluid.
FLUIDRACHM
See Fluid dram, under Fluid. Pharm. of the U. S.
FLUKAN
Flucan.
FLUKE
One of the lobes of a whale's tail, so called from theresemblance to the fluke of an anchor.
FLUKEWORM
Same as 1st Fluke, 2.
FLUKY
Formed like, or having, a fluke.
FLUME
A stream; especially, a passage channel, or conduit for thewater that drives a mill wheel; or an artifical channel of water forhydraulic or placer mining; also, a chute for conveying logs orlumber down a declivity.
FLUMINOUS
Pertaining to rivers; abounding in streama.
FLUNG
imp. & p. p. of Fling.
FLUNK
To fail, as on a lesson; to back out, as from an undertaking,through fear.
FLUNKYDOM
The place or region of flunkies. C. Kingsley.
FLUNLYISM
The quality or characteristics of a flunky; readiness to cringeto those who are superior in wealth or position; toadyism. Thackeray.
FLUO-
A combining form indicating fluorine as an ingredient; as influosilicate, fluobenzene.
FLUOBORATE
A salt of fluoboric acid; a fluoboride.
FLUOBORIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or consisting of, fluorine andboron. Fluoridic acid (Chem.), a double fluoride, consistingessentially of a solution of boron fluoride, in hydrofluoric acid. Ithas strong acid properties, and is the type of the borofluorides.Called also borofluoric acid.
FLUOBORIDE
See Borofluoride.
FLUOHYDRIC
See Hydrofluoric.
FLUOPHOSPHATE
A double salt of fluoric and phosphoric acids.
FLUOR
See Fluorite.
FLUOR ALBUS
The whites; leucorrhรฆa.
FLUOR SPAR
See Fluorite.
FLUORANTHENE
A white crystalline hydrocarbon C
FLUORATED
Combined with fluorine; subjected to the action of fluoride.[R.]
FLUORENE
A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C13H10 having a beautifulviolet fluorescence; whence its name. It occurs in the higher boilingproducts of coal tar, and is obtained artificially.
FLUORESCEIN
A yellowish red, crystalline substance, C20H12O5, produced byheating together phthalic anhydride and resorcin; -- so called, fromthe very brilliant yellowish green fluorescence of its alkalinesolutions. It has acid properties, and its salts of the alkalies areknown to the trade under the name of uranin.
FLUORESCENCE
That property which some transparent bodies have of producingat their surface, or within their substance, light different in colorfrom the mass of the material, as when green crystals of fluor sparafford blue reflections. It is due not to the difference in the colorof a distinct surface layer, but to the power which the substance hasof modifying the light incident upon it. The light emitted byfluorescent substances is in general of lower refrangibility than theincident light. Stockes.
FLUORESCENT
Having the property of fluorescence.
FLUORESCIN
A colorless, amorphous substance which is produced by thereduction of fluoresceรฏn, and from which the latter may be formed byoxidation.
FLUORIC
Pertaining to, obtained from, or containing, fluorine.
FLUORIDE
A binary compound of fluorine with another element or radical.Calcium fluoride (Min.), fluorite, CaF2. See Fluorite.
FLUORINE
A non-metallic, gaseous element, strongly acid or negative, orassociated with chlorine, bromine, and iodine, in the halogen groupof which it is the first member. It always occurs combined, is veryactive chemically, and possesses such an avidity for most elements,and silicon especially, that it can neither be prepared nor kept inglass vessels. If set free it immediately attacks the containingmaterial, so that it was not isolated until 1886. It is a pungent,corrosive, colorless gas. Symbol F. Atomic weight 19.
FLUORITE
Calcium fluoride, a mineral of many different colors, white,yellow, purple, green, red, etc., often very beautiful, crystallizingcommonly in cubes with perfect octahedral cleavage; also massive. Itis used as a flux. Some varieties are used for ornamental vessels.Also called fluor spar, or simply fluor.
FLUOROID
A tetrahexahedron; -- so called because it is a common form offluorite.
FLUOROSCOPE
An instrument for observing or exhibiting fluorescence.
FLUOROSCOPY
Examination of an object, as the human body, by exposing it tothe X rays and observing the shadow cast upon a fluorescent screen;cryptoscopy.
FLUOROUS
Pertaining to fluor.
FLUOSILICATE
A double fluoride of silicon and some other (usually basic)element or radical, regarded as a salt of fluosilicic acid; -- calledalso silicofluoride.
FLUOSILICIC
Composed of, or derived from, silicon and fluorine. Fluosilicicacid, a double fluoride of hydrogen and silicon, H2F6Si, obtained insolution in water as a sour fuming liquid, and regarded as the typeof the fluosilicates; -- called also silicofluoric acid, andhydrofluosilicic acid.
FLURRIED
Agitated; excited.-- Flur"ried*ly adv.
FLURRY
To put in a state of agitation; to excite or alarm. H.Swinburne.
FLURT
A flirt. [Obs.] Quarles.
FLUSH
A hand of cards of the same suit.
FLUSHBOARD
Same as Flashboard.
FLUSHER
The red-backed shrike. See Flasher.
FLUSHING
A surface formed of floating threads.
FLUSHINGLY
In a flushing manner.
FLUSHNESS
The state of being flush; abundance.
FLUSTER
To make hot and rosy, as with drinking; to heat; hence, tothrow into agitation and confusion; to confuse; to muddle.His habit or flustering himself daily with claret. Macaulay.
FLUSTERATION
The act of flustering, or the state of being flustered;fluster. [Colloq.]
FLUSTRATE
To fluster. [Colloq.] Spectator.
FLUSTRATION
The act of flustrating; confusion; flurry. [Colloq.]Richardson.
FLUTE
A channel of curved section; -- usually applied to one of avertical series of such channels used to decorate columns andpilasters in classical architecture. See Illust. under Base, n.
FLUTE A BEC
A beak flute, an older form of the flute, played with amouthpiece resembling a beak, and held like a flageolet.
FLUTEMOUTH
A fish of the genus Aulostoma, having a much elongated tubularsnout.
FLUTING
Decoration by means of flutes or channels; a flute, or flutescollectively; as, the fluting of a column or pilaster; the fluting ofa lady's ruffle. Fluting iron, a laundry iron for fluting ruffles; --called also Italian iron, or gaufering iron. Knight.-- Fluting lathe, a machine for forming spiral flutes, as onbalusters, table legs, etc.
FLUTIST
A performer on the flute; a flautist. Busby.
FLUTTERER
One who, or that which, flutters.
FLUTTERINGLY
In a fluttering manner.
FLUTY
Soft and clear in tone, like a flute.
FLUVIAL
Belonging to rivers; growing or living in streams or ponds; as,a fluvial plant.
FLUVIALIST
One who exlpains geological phenomena by the action of streams.[R.]
FLUVIATIC
Belonging to rivers or streams; fluviatile. Johnson.
FLUVIATILE
Belonging to rivers or streams; existing in or about rivers;produced by river action; fluvial; as, fluviatile starta, plants.Lyell.
FLUVIO-MARINE
Formed by the joint action of a river and the sea, as depositsat the mouths of rivers.
FLUVIOGRAPH
An instrument for measuring and recording automatically therise and fall of a river.
FLUVIOMETER
An instrument for measuring the height of water in a river; ariver gauge.
FLUX
Any substance or mixture used to promote the fusion of metalsor minerals, as alkalies, borax, lime, fluorite.
FLUXATION
The act of fluxing.
FLUXIBILITY
The quality of being fluxible. Hammond.
FLUXIBLE
Capable of being melted or fused, as a mineral. Holland.-- Flux"i*ble*ness, n.
FLUXILE
Fluxible. [R.]
FLUXILITY
State of being fluxible.[Obs.]
FLUXION
The act of flowing. Cotgrave.
FLUXIONAL
Pertaining to, or having the nature of, fluxion or fluxions;variable; inconstant.The merely human,the temporary and fluxional. Coleridge.Fluxional structure (Geol.), fluidal structure.
FLUXIONARY
Pertaining to, or caused by, an increased flow of blood to apart; congestive; as, a fluxionary hemorrhage.
FLUXIONIST
One skilled in fluxions. Berkeley.
FLUXIONS
See Fluxion, 6(b).
FLUXIVE
Flowing; also, wanting solidity. B. Jonson.
FLY
That part of a compass on which the points are marked; thecompass card. Totten.
FLY-BITTEN
Marked by, or as if by, the bite of flies. Shak.
FLY-CASE
The covering of an insect, esp. the elytra of beetles.
FLY-CATCHING
Having the habit of catching insects on the wing.
FLY-FISH
To angle, using flies for bait. Walton.
FLYAWAY
Disposed to fly away; flighty; unrestrained; light and free; --used of both persons and things. -- n.
FLYAWAY GRASS
The hair grass (Agrostis scabra). So called from its lightpanicle, which is blown to great distances by the wind.
FLYBANE
A kind of catchfly of the genus Silene; also, a poisonousmushroom (Agaricus muscarius); fly agaric.
FLYBLOW
To deposit eggs upon, as a flesh fly does on meat; to cause tobe maggoty; hence, to taint or contaminate, as if with flyblows. Bp.Srillingfleet.
FLYBLOWN
Tainted or contaminated with flyblows; damaged; foul.Wherever flyblown reputations were assembled. Thackeray.
FLYBOAT
A large Dutch coasting vessel.Captain George Weymouth made a voyage of discovery to the northwestwith two flyboats. Purchas.
FLYCATCHER
One of numerous species of birds that feed upon insects, whichthey take on the wing.
FLYER
One in a flight of steps which are parallel to each other(as inordinary stairs), as distinguished from a winder.
FLYFISH
A California scorpรฆnoid fish (Sebastichthys rhodochloris),having brilliant colors.
FLYING
Moving in the air with, or as with, wings; moving lightly orrapidly; intended for rapid movement.
FLYING BOAT
A compact form of hydro-aรซroplane having one central body, orhull.
FLYING FISH
A fish which is able to leap from the water, and fly aconsiderable distance by means of its large and long pectoral fins.These fishes belong to several species of the genus Exocoetus, andare found in the warmer parts of all the oceans.
FLYING SQUIRREL
One of a group of squirrels, of the genera Pteromus andSciuropterus, having parachute-like folds of skin extending from thefore to the hind legs, which enable them to make very long leaps.
FLYMAN
The driver of a fly, or light public carriage.
FLYSCH
A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlyingthe true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the EoceneTertiary.
FLYSPECK
A speck or stain made by the excrement of a fly; hence, anyinsignificant dot.
FLYTRAP
. A trap for catching flies.
FNESE
To breathe heavily; to snort. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FO
The Chinese name of Buddha.
FOAL
The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidรฆ); a colt; afilly. Foal teeth (Zoรถl.), the first set of teeth of a horse.-- In foal, With foal, being with young; pregnant; -- said of a mareor she ass.
FOALFOOT
(Bot.) See Coltsfoot.
FOAM
The white substance, consisting of an aggregation of bubbles,which is formed on the surface of liquids,or in the mouth of ananimal, by violent agitation or fermentation; froth; spume; scum; as,the foam of the sea. Foam cock, in steam boilers, a cock at the waterlevel, to blow off impurities.
FOAMINGLY
With foam; frothily.
FOAMLESS
Having no foam.
FOAMY
Covered with foam; frothy; spumy.Behold how high the foamy billows ride! Dryden.
FOB
A little pocket for a watch. Fob chain, a short watch chainworn a watch carried in the fob.
FOCAL
Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point. Focaldistance, or length,of a lens or mirror (Opt.), the distance of thefocus from the surface of the lens or mirror, or more exactly, in thecase of a lens, from its optical center. --Focal distance of atelescope, the distance of the image of an object from the objectglass.
FOCALIZATION
The act of focalizing or bringing to a focus, or the state ofbeing focalized.
FOCALIZE
To bring to a focus; to focus; to concentrate.Light is focalized in the eye, sound in the ear. De Quincey.
FOCILLATE
To nourish. [Obs.] Blount.
FOCILLATION
Comfort; support. [Obs.]
FOCIMETER
(Photog.) An assisting instrument for focusing an object in orbefore a camera. Knight.
FOCUS
A point in which the rays of light meet, after being reflectedor refrcted, and at which the image is formed; as, the focus of alens or mirror.
FODDER
A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerlysold, in England, varying from 19 [Obs.]
FODDERER
One who fodders cattle.
FODIENT
Fitted for, or pertaining to, digging.
FODIENTIA
A group of African edentates including the aard-vark.
FOE
See Fiend, and cf. Feud a quarrel.
FOEHOOD
Enmity. Br. Bedell.
FOEMAN
An enemy in war.And the stern joy which warriors feel In foemen worthy of theirsteel. Sir W. Scott
FOETAL
Same as Fetal.
FOETATION
Same as Fetation.
FOETICIDE
Same as Feticide.
FOETOR
Same as Fetor.
FOETUS
Same as Fetus.
FOG
(Agric.) To pasture cattle on the fog, or aftergrass, of; toeat off the fog from.
FOG BELT
A region of the ocean where fogs are of marked frequency, asnear the coast of Newfoundland.
FOGBOW
A nebulous arch, or bow, of white or yellowish light sometimesseen in fog, etc.
FOGE
The Cornish name for a forge used for smelting tin. Raymond
FOGEY
See Fogy.
FOGGAGE
See 1st Fog.
FOGGER
One who fogs; a pettifogger. [Obs.]A beggarly fogger. Terence in English(1614)
FOGGILY
In a foggy manner; obscurely. Johnson.
FOGGINESS
The state of being foggy. Johnson.
FOGIE
See Fogy.
FOGLESS
Without fog; clear. Kane.
FOGY
A dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over-conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old. [Written alsofogie and fogey.] [Colloq.]Notorious old bore; regular old fogy. Thackeray.
FOGYISM
The principles and conduct of a fogy. [Colloq.]
FOH
An exclamation of abhorrence or contempt; poh; fle. Shak.
FOHIST
A Buddhist priest. See Fo.
FOIBLE
Weak; feeble. [Obs.] Lord Herbert.
FOIL
To defile; to soil. [Obs.]
FOILABLE
Capable of being foiled.
FOILER
One who foils or frustrates. Johnson.
FOILING
A foil. Simmonds.
FOIN
The beech marten (Mustela foina). See Marten.
FOINERY
Thrusting with the foil; fencing with the point, asdistinguished from broadsword play. [Obs.] Marston.
FOININGLY
With a push or thrust. [Obs.]
FOISON
Rich harvest; plenty; abundance. [Archaic] Lowell.That from the seedness the bare fallow brings To teeming foison.Shak.
FOIST
A light and fast-sailing ship. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
FOISTER
One who foists something surreptitiously; a falsitier. Mir. forMag.
FOISTIED
Fusty. [Obs.]
FOISTINESS
Fustiness; mustiness. [Obs.]
FOISTY
Fusty; musty. [Obs.] Johnson.
FOLD
To become folded, plaited, or doubled; to close over another ofthe same kind; to double together; as, the leaves of the door fold. 1Kings vi. 34.
FOLDAGE
See Faldage.
FOLDER
One who, or that which, folds; esp., a flat, knifelikeinstrument used for folding paper.
FOLDEROL
Nonsense. [Colloq.]
FOLDING
The keepig of sheep in inclosures on arable land, etc. Foldingboat, a portable boat made by stretching canvas, etc., over jointedframework, used in campaigning, and by tourists, etc. Ham. Nav.Encyc. Folding chairFolding door, one of two or more doors filling asingle and hung upon hinges.
FOLDLESS
Having no fold. Milman.
FOLIACEOUS
Belonging to, or having the texture or nature of, a leaf;having leaves intermixed with flowers; as, a foliaceous spike.
FOLIAGE
To adorn with foliage or the imitation of foliage; to form intothe representation of leaves. [R.] Drummond.
FOLIAGED
Furnished with foliage; leaved; as, the variously foliagedmulberry.
FOLIAR
Consisting of, or pertaining to, leaves; as, foliar appendages.Foliar gap (Bot.), an opening in the fibrovascular system of a stemat the point of origin of a leaf.-- Foliar trace (Bot.), a particular fibrovascular bundle passingdown into the stem from a leaf.
FOLIATE
Furnished with leaves; leafy; as, a foliate stalk. Foliatecurve. (Geom.) Same as Folium.
FOLIATED
Containing, or consisting of, foils; as, a foliated arch.
FOLIATION
The enrichment of an opening by means of foils, arranged intrefoils, quatrefoils, etc.; also, one of the ornaments. See Tracery.
FOLIATURE
1. Foliage; leafage. [Obs.] Shuckford.
FOLIER
Goldsmith's foil. [R.] Sprat.
FOLIFEROUS
Producing leaves. [Written also foliiferous.]
FOLILY
Foolishly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOLIO
The page number. The even folios are on the left-hand pages andthe odd folios on the right-hand.
FOLIOLATE
Of or pertaining to leaflets; -- used in composition; as, bi-foliolate. Gray.
FOLIOLE
One of the distinct parts of a compound leaf; a leaflet.
FOLIOMORT
See Feuillemort.
FOLIOSE
Having many leaves; leafy.
FOLIOSITY
The ponderousness or bulk of a folio; voluminousness. [R.] DeQuincey.
FOLIOUS
Foliose. [R.]
FOLIUM
A curve of the third order, consisting of two infinitebranches, which have a common asymptote. The curve has a doublepoint, and a leaf-shaped loop; whence the name. Its equation is x3 +y3 = axy.
FOLKETHING
The lower house of the Danish Rigsdag, or Parliament. SeeLegislature, below.
FOLKLAND
Land held in villenage, being distributed among the folk, orpeople, at the pleasure of the lord of the manor, and resumed at hisdiscretion. Not being held by any assurance in writing, it wasopposed to bookland or charter land, which was held by deed. Mozley &W.
FOLKMOTE
An assembly of the people; esp. (Sax. Law),
FOLKMOTER
One who takes part in a folkmote, or local court. [Obs.]Milton.
FOLLICLE
A simple podlike pericarp which contains several seeds andopens along the inner or ventral suture, as in the peony, larkspurand milkweed.
FOLLICULAR
Affecting the follicles; as, follicular pharyngitis.
FOLLICULATED
Having follicles.
FOLLICULOUS
Having or producing follicles.
FOLLIFUL
Full of folly. [Obs.]
FOLLOW
To go or come after; -- used in the various senses of thetransitive verb: To pursue; to attend; to accompany; to be a result;to imitate.
FOLLOWER
1. One who follows; a pursuer; an attendant; a disciple; adependent associate; a retainer.
FOLLOWING
(In the field of a telescope) In the direction from which starsare apparently moving (in consequence of the erth's rotation); as, asmall star, north following or south following. In the directiontoward which stars appear to move is called preceding.
FOLLOWING EDGE
See Advancing-edge, above.
FOLLOWING SURFACE
See Advancing-surface, above.
FOLWE
To follow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOMALHAUT
A star of the first magnitude, in the constellation PiscisAustralis, or Southern Fish.
FOMENTER
One who foments; one who encourages or instigates; as, afomenter of sedition.
FOMES
Any substance supposed to be capable of absorbing, retaining,and transporting contagious or infectious germs; as, woolen clothesare said to be active fomites.
FON
A fool; an idiot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOND
imp. of Find. Found. Chaucer.
FONDANT
A kind of soft sweetmeat made by boiling solutions to the pointof crystallization, usually molded; as, cherry fondant.
FONDE
To endeavor; to strive; to try. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FONDLE
To treat or handle with tenderness or in a loving manner; tocaress; as, a nurse fondles a child.
FONDLER
One who fondles. Johnson.
FONDLING
The act of caressing; manifestation of tenderness.Cyrus made no . . . amorous fondling To fan her pride, or melt herguardless heart. Mickle.
FONDON
A large copper vessel used for hot amalgamation.
FONDU
Blended; passing into each other by subtle gradations; -- saidof colors or of the surface or material on which the colors are laid.
FONDUS
A style of printing calico, paper hangings, etc., in which thecolors are in bands and graduated into each other. Ure.
FONE
pl. of Foe. [Obs.] Spenser.
FONGE
To take; to receive. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FONLY
Foolishly; fondly. [Obs.] Spenser.
FONNE
A fon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FONT
A complete assortment of printing type of one size, including adue proportion of all the letters in the alphabet, large and small,points, accents, and whatever else is necessary for printing withthat variety of types; a fount.
FONTAL
Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original;primitive. [R.]From the fontal light of ideas only can a man draw intellectualpower. Coleridge.
FONTANEL
An issue or artificial ulcer for the discharge of humors fromthe body.[Obs.] Wiseman.
FONTANELLE
Same as Fontanel, 2.
FONTANGE
A kind of tall headdress formerly worn. Addison.
FOOD
To supply with food. [Obs.] Baret.
FOODFUL
Full of food; supplying food; fruitful; fertile. "The foodfulearth." Dryden.Bent by its foodful burden [the corn]. Glover.
FOODLESS
Without food; barren. Sandys.
FOODY
Eatable; fruitful. [R.] Chapman.
FOOL
A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; --commonly called gooseberry fool.
FOOL-BORN
Begotten by a fool. Shak.
FOOL-HAPPY
Lucky, without judgment or contrivance. [Obs.] Spenser.
FOOL-HASTY
Foolishly hasty. [R.]
FOOL-LARGE
Foolishly liberal. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOOL-LARGESSE
Foolish expenditure; waste. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOOLAHS
Same as Fulahs.
FOOLHARDIHOOD
The state of being foolhardy; foolhardiness.
FOOLHARDILY
In a foolhardy manner.
FOOLHARDINESS
Courage without sense or judgment; foolish rashness;recklessness. Dryden.
FOOLHARDISE
Foolhardiness. [Obs.] Spenser.
FOOLHARDY
Daring without judgment; foolishly adventurous and bold.Howell.
FOOLIFY
To make a fool of; to befool. [R.] Holland.
FOOLISHLY
In a foolish manner.
FOOLSCAP
A writing paper made in sheets, ordinarily 16 x 13 inches, andfolded so as to make a page 13 x 8 inches. See Paper.
FOOT
The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., thepart below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which itrests when standing, or moves. See Manus, and Pes.
FOOT CANDLE
The amount of illumination produced by a standard candle at adistance of one foot.
FOOT GUARDS
Infantry soldiers belonging to select regiments called theGuards. [Eng.]
FOOT POUND
A unit of energy, or work, being equal to the work done inraising one pound avoirdupois against the force of gravity the heightof one foot.
FOOT POUNDAL
A unit of energy or work, equal to the work done in moving abody through one foot against the force of one poundal.
FOOT TON
A unit of energy or work, being equal to the work done inraising one ton against the force of gravity through the height ofone foot.
FOOT VALVE
A suction valve or check valve at the lower end of a pipe;esp., such a valve in a steam-engine condenser opening to the airpump.
FOOT-SORE
Having sore or tender feet, as by reason of much walking; as,foot-sore cattle.
FOOTBALL
An inflated ball to be kicked in sport, usually made in Indiarubber, or a bladder incased in Leather. Waller.
FOOTBAND
A band of foot soldiers. [Obs.]
FOOTBATH
A bath for the feet; also, a vessel used in bathing the feet.
FOOTBOY
A page; an attendant in livery; a lackey. Shak.
FOOTBREADTH
The breadth of a foot; -- used as a measure. Longfellow.Not so much as a footbreadth. Deut. ii. 5.
FOOTBRIDGE
A narrow bridge for foot passengers only.
FOOTCLOTH
Formerly, a housing or caparison for a horse. Sir W. Scott.
FOOTFALL
A setting down of the foot; a footstep; the sound of afootstep. Shak.Seraphim, whose footfalls tinkled on the tufted floor. Poe
FOOTFIGHT
A conflict by persons on foot; -- distinguished from a fight onhorseback. Sir P. Sidney.
FOOTGLOVE
A kind of stocking. [Obs.]
FOOTHALT
A disease affecting the feet of sheep.
FOOTHILL
A low hill at the foot of highe
FOOTHOLD
A holding with the feet; firm L'Estrange.
FOOTHOOK
See Futtock.
FOOTHOT
Hastily; immediately; instantly; on the spot; hotfloot. Gower.Custance have they taken anon, foothot. Chaucer.
FOOTING
The thickened or sloping portion of a wall, or of an embankmentat its foot. Footing course (Arch.), one of the courses of masonry atthe foot of a wall, broader than the courses above.-- To pay one's footing, to pay a fee on first doing anything, asworking at a trade or in a shop. Wright.-- Footing beam, the tie beam of a roof.
FOOTLESS
Having no feet.
FOOTLICKER
A sycophant; a fawner; a toady. Cf. Bootlick. Shak.
FOOTLIGHT
One of a row of lights in the front of the stage in a theater,etc., and on a level therewith. Before the footlights, upon thestage; -- hence, in the capacity of an actor.
FOOTMAN
A moth of the family Lithosidรฆ; -- so called from its livery-like colors.
FOOTMANSHIP
Art or skill of a footman.
FOOTMARK
A footprint; a track or vestige. Coleridge.
FOOTNOTE
A note of reference or comment at the foot of a page.
FOOTPAD
A highwayman or robber on foot.
FOOTPATH
A narrow path or way for pedestrains only; a footway.
FOOTPLATE
See Footboard (a).
FOOTPRINT
The impression of the foot; a trace or footmark; as,"Footprints of the Creator."
FOOTS
The settlings of oil, molasses, etc., at the bottom of a barrelor hogshead. Simmonds.
FOOTSTALK
The stalk of a leaf or of flower; a petiole, pedicel, orreduncle.
FOOTSTALL
The plinth or base of a pillar.
FOOTSTONE
The stone at the foot of a grave; -- opposed to headstone.
FOOTSTOOL
A low stool to support the feet of one when sitting.
FOOTWAY
A passage for pedestrians only.
FOOTWORN
Worn by, or weared in, the feet; as, a footworn path; afootworn traveler.
FOOZLE
To bungle; to manage awkwardly; to treat or play unskillfully;as, to foozle a stroke in golf.
FOP
One whose ambition it is to gain admiration by showy dress; acoxcomb; an inferior dandy.
FOP-DOODLE
A stupid or insignaficant fellow; a fool; a simpleton. [R.]Hudibras.
FOPLING
A petty fop. Landor.
FOPPISH
Foplike; characteristic of a top in dress or manners; making anostentatious display of gay clothing; affected in manners.
FOR
In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of,in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takesplace.
FOR-
A prefix to verbs, having usually the force of a negative orprivative. It often implies also loss, detriment, or destruction, andsometimes it is intensive, meaning utterly, quite thoroughly, as inforbathe.
FORAGE
To wander or rove in search of food; to collect food, esp.forage, for horses and cattle by feeding on or stripping the country;to ravage; to feed on spoil.His most mighty father on a hill Stood smiling to behold his lion'swhelp Forage in blood of French nobility. Shak.Foraging ant (Zoรถl.), one of several species of ants of the genusEciton, very abundant in tropical America, remarkable for marching invast armies in search of food.-- Foraging cap, a forage cap.-- Foraging party, a party sent out after forage.
FORAGER
One who forages.
FORALITE
A tubelike marking, occuring in sandstone and other strata.
FORAMEN
A small opening, perforation, or orifice; a fenestra. Foramenof Monro (Anat.), the opening from each lateral into the thirdventricle of the brain.-- Foramen of Winslow (Anat.), the opening connecting the sac of theomentum with the general cavity of the peritoneum.
FORAMINATED
Having small opening, or foramina.
FORAMINIFER
One of the foraminifera.
FORAMINIFERA
An extensive order of rhizopods which generally have achambered calcareous shell formed by several united zooids. Many ofthem have perforated walls, whence the name. Some species are coveredwith sand. See Rhizophoda.
FORAMINOUS
Having foramina; full of holes; porous. Bacon.
FORASMUCH
In consideration that; seeing that; since; because that; --followed by as. See under For, prep.
FORAY
A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, anyirregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid. Spenser.The huge Earl Doorm, . . . Bound on a foray, rolling eyes of prey.Tennyson.
FORAYER
One who makes or joins in a foray.They might not choose the lowand road, For the Merse forayers wereabroad. Sir W. Scott.
FORBADE
imp. of Forbid.
FORBATHE
To bathe. [Obs.]
FORBEAR
An ancestor; a forefather; -- usually in the plural. [Scot.]"Your forbears of old." Sir W. Scott.
FORBEARANCE
The act of forbearing or waiting; the exercise of patience.He soon shall findForbearance no acquittance ere day end. Milton.
FORBEARANT
Forbearing. [R.] Carlyle.
FORBEARER
One who forbears. Tusser.
FORBEARING
Disposed or accustomed to forbear; patient; long-suffering.-- For*bear"ing*ly, adv.
FORBID
To utter a prohibition; to prevent; to hinder. "I did not orforbid." Milton.
FORBIDDANCE
The act of forbidding; prohibition; command or edict against athing. [Obs.]ow hast thou yield to transgress The strict forbiddance. Milton.
FORBIDDEN
Prohibited; interdicted.I kniw no spells, use no forbidden arts. Milton.Forbidden fruit. (a) Any coveted unlawful pleasure, -- so called withreference to the forbidden fruit of the Garden of Eden. (b) (Bot.) Asmall variety of shaddock (Citrus decumana). The name is given indifferent places to several varieties of Citrus fruits.
FORBIDDENLY
In a forbidden or unlawful manner. Shak.
FORBIDDER
One who forbids. Milton.
FORBIDDING
Repelling approach; repulsive; raising abhorrence, aversion, ordislike; disagreeable; prohibiting or interdicting; as, a forbiddingaspect; a forbidding formality; a forbidding air.
FORBLACK
Very black. [Obs.]As any raven's feathers it shone forblack. Chaucer.
FORBODEN
p. p. of Forbid. Chaucer.
FORBORE
imp. of Forbear.
FORBORNE
p. p. of Forbear.
FORBRUISE
To bruise sorely or exceedingly. [Obs.]All forbrosed, both back and side. Chaucer.
FORBY
Near; hard by; along; past. [Obs.]To tell her if her child went ought forby. Chaucer.To the intent that ships may pass along forby all the sides of thecity without let. Robynson (More's Utopia).
FORCARVE
To cut completely; to cut off. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORCE
To stuff; to lard; to farce. [R.]Wit larded with malice, and malice forced with wit. Shak.
FORCED
Done or produced with force or great labor, or by extraordinaryexertion; hurried; strained; produced by unnatural effort orpressure; as, a forced style; a forced laugh. Forced draught. Seeunder Draught.-- Forced march (Mil.), a march of one or more days made with allpossible speed.-- For"ced*ly, adv.-- For"ced*ness, n.
FORCEFUL
Full of or processing force; exerting force; mighty.-- Force"ful*ly, adv.Against the steed he threw His forceful spear. Dryden.
FORCELESS
Having little or no force; feeble.These forceless flowers like sturdy trees support me. Shak.
FORCEMEAT
Meat chopped fine and highly seasoned, either served up alone,or used as a stuffing. [Written also forced meat.]
FORCEMENT
The act of forcing; compulsion. [Obs.]It was imposed upon us by constraint; And will you count suchforcement treachery J. Webster.
FORCEPS
The caudal forceps-shaped appendage of earwigs and some otherinsects. See Earwig. Dressing forceps. See under Dressing.
FORCIBLE-FEEBLE
Seemingly vigorous, but really weak or insipid.He [Prof. Ayton] would purge his book of much offensive matter, if hestruck out epithets which are in the bad taste of the forcible-feebleschool. N. Brit. Review.
FORCIBLENESS
The quality of being forcible.
FORCIBLY
In a forcible manner.
FORCING
The art of raising plants, flowers, and fruits at an earlierseason than the natural one, as in a hitbed or by the use ofartificial heat. Forcing bed or pit, a plant bed having an underlayer of fermenting manure, the fermentation yielding bottom heat forforcing plants; a hotbed.-- Forcing engine, a fire engine.-- Forcing fit (Mech.), a tight fit, as of one part into a hole inanother part, which makes it necessary to use considerable force inputting the two parts together.-- Forcing house, a greenhouse for the forcing of plants, fruittrees, etc.-- Forcing machine, a powerful press for putting together orseparating two parts that are fitted tightly one into another, as forforcing a crank on a shaft, or for drawing off a car wheel from theaxle.-- Forcing pump. See Force pump (b).
FORCIPAL
Forked or branched like a pair of forceps; constructed so as toopen and shut like a pair of forceps. Sir T. Browne.
FORCIPATION
Torture by pinching with forceps or pinchers. Bacon.
FORCITE
A gelatin dynamite in which the dope is composed largely ofsodium nitrate.
FORCUT
To cut completely; to cut off. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORD
To pass or cross, as a river or other water, by wading; to wadethrough.His last section, which is no deep one, remains only to be forted.Milton.
FORDABLE
Capable of being forded.-- Ford"a*ble*ness, n.
FORDLESS
Without a ford.A deep and fordless river. Mallock.
FORDONE
Undone; ruined. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORDRIVE
To drive about; to drive here and there. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
FORDRUNKEN
Utterly drunk; very drunk. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORDRY
Entirely dry; withered. [Obs.] "A tree fordry." Chaucer.
FORDWINE
To dwindle away; to disappear. [Obs.] Rom of R.
FORE
Journey; way; method of proceeding. [Obs.] "Follow him and hisfore." Chaucer.
FORE TOOTH
One of the teeth in the forepart of the mouth; an incisor.
FORE-NIGHT
The evening between twilight and bedtime. [Scot.]
FORE-TOPGALLANT
Designating the mast, sail, yard, etc., above the topmast; as,the fore-topgallant sail. See Sail.
FORE-TOPMAST
The mast erected at the head of the foremast, and at the headof which stands the fore-topgallant mast. See Ship.
FORE-TOPSAIL
See Sail.
FOREADMONISH
To admonish beforehand, or before the act or event. Bp. Hall.
FOREADVISE
To advise or counsel before the time of action, or before theevent. Shak.
FOREALLEGE
To allege or cite before. Fotherby.
FOREAPPOINT
To set, order, or appoint, beforehand. Sherwood.
FOREAPPOINTMENT
Previous appointment; preordinantion. Sherwood.
FOREARM
To arm or prepare for attack or resistance before the time ofneed. South.
FOREBEAM
The breast beam of a loom.
FOREBEAR
An ancestor. See Forbear.
FOREBODE
To fortell; to presage; to augur.If I forebode aright. Hawthorne.
FOREBODEMENT
The act of foreboding; the thing foreboded.
FOREBODER
One who forebodes.
FOREBODING
Presage of coming ill; expectation of misfortune.
FOREBODINGLY
In a foreboding manner.
FOREBRACE
A rope applied to the fore yardarm, to change the position ofthe foresail.
FOREBRAIN
The anterior of the three principal divisions of the brain,including the prosencephalon and thalamencephalon. Sometimesrestricted to the prosencephalon only. See Brain.
FOREBY
Near; hard by; along; past. See Forby. Spenser.
FORECAST
To contrive or plan beforehand.If it happen as I did forecast. Milton.
FORECASTER
One who forecast. Johnson.
FORECHOSEN
Chosen beforehand.
FORECITED
Cited or quoted before or above. Arbuthnot.
FORECLOSE
To shut up or out; to preclude; to stop; to prevent; to bar; toexclude.The embargo with Spain foreclosed this trade. Carew.To foreclose a mortgager (Law), to cut him off by a judgment of courtfrom the power of redeeming the mortgaged premises, termed his equityof redemption.-- To foreclose a mortgage, (not technically correct, but often usedto signify) the obtaining a judgment for the payment of an overduemortgage, and the exposure of the mortgaged property to sale to meetthe mortgage debt. Wharton.
FORECLOSURE
The act or process of foreclosing; a proceeding which bars orextinguishes a mortgager's right of redeeming a mortgaged estate.
FORECONCEIVE
To preconceive; to imagine beforehand. [Obs.] Bacon.
FOREDATE
To date before the true time; to antendate.
FOREDECK
The fore part of a deck, or of a ship.
FOREDEEM
To recognize or judge in advance; to forebode. [Obs.] Udall.Laugh at your misery, as foredeeming you An idle meteor. J. Webster.
FOREDESIGN
To plan beforehand; to intend previously. Cheyne.
FOREDETERMINE
To determine or decree beforehand. Bp. Hopkins.
FOREDISPOSE
To bestow beforehand. [R.]King James had by promise foredisposed the place on the Bishop ofMeath. Fuller.
FOREDOOM
To doom beforehand; to predestinate.Thou art foredomed to view the Stygian state. Dryden.
FOREFATHER
One who precedes another in the line of genealogy in anydegree, but usually in a remote degree; an ancestor.Respecting your forefathers, you would have been taught to respectyourselves. Burke.Forefathers' Day, the anniversary of the day (December 21) on whichthe Pilgrim Fathers landed at Plymouth, Massachusetts (1620). Onaccount of a mistake in reckoning the change from Old Style to NewStyle, it has generally been celebrated on the 22d.
FOREFEEL
To feel beforehand; to have a presentiment of. [Obs.]As when, with unwieldy waves, the great sea forefeels winds. Chapman.
FOREFENCE
Defense in front. [Obs.]
FOREFEND
To hinder; to fend off; to avert; to prevent the approach of;to forbid or prohibit. See Forfend.God forefend it should ever be recorded in our history. Landor.It would be a far better work . . . to forefend the cruelty. I.Taylor.
FOREFINGER
The finger next to the thumb; the index.
FOREFLOW
To flow before. [Obs.]
FOREFOOT
A piece of timber which terminates the keel at the fore end,connecting it with the lower end of the stem.
FOREFRONT
Foremost part or place.Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle. 2 Sam. xi. 15.Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, standing in the forefront for all time,the masters of those who know. J. C. Shairp.
FOREGAME
A first game; first plan. [Obs.] Whitlock.
FOREGANGER
A short rope grafted on a harpoon, to which a longer linTotten.
FOREGATHER
Same as Forgather.
FOREGIFT
A premium paid by
FOREGLEAM
An antecedent or premonitory gleam; a dawning light.The foregleams of wisdom. Whittier.
FOREGO
To go before; to precede; -- used especially in the present andpast participles.Pleasing remembrance of a thought foregone. Wordsworth.For which the very mother's face forewent The mother's specialpatience. Mrs. Browning.Foregone conclusion, one which has preceded argument or examination;one predetermined.
FOREGOER
One who forbears to enjoy.
FOREGROUND
On a painting, and sometimes in a bas-relief, mosaic picture,or the like, that part of the scene represented, which is nearest tothe spectator, and therefore occupies the lowest part of the work ofart itself. Cf. Distance, n., 6.
FOREGUESS
To conjecture. [Obs.]
FOREGUT
The anterior part of the alimentary canal, from the mouth tothe intestine, o
FOREHAND
Done beforehand; anticipative.And so extenuate the forehand sin. Shak.
FOREHEAR
To hear beforehand.
FOREHEARTH
The forward extension of the hearth of a blast furnace underthe tymp.
FOREHEND
See Forhend. [Obs.]
FOREHEW
To hew or cut in front. [Obs.] Sackville.
FOREHOLD
The forward part of the hold of a ship.
FOREHOLDING
Ominous foreboding; superstitious prognostication. [Obs.]L'Estrange.
FOREHOOK
A piece of timber placed across the stem, to unite the bows andstrengthen the fore part of the ship; a breast hook.
FOREIGNER
A person belonging to or owning allegiance to a foreigncountry; one not native in the country or jurisdiction underconsideration, or not naturalized there; an alien; a stranger.Joy is such a foreigner, So mere a stranger to my thoughts. Denham.Nor could the majesty of the English crown appear in a greaterluster, either to foreigners or subjects. Swift.
FOREIGNISM
Anything peculiar to a foreign language or people; a foreignidiom or custom.It is a pity to see the technicalities of the so-called liberalprofessions distigured by foreignisms. Fitzed. Hall.
FOREIGNNESS
The quality of being foreign; remoteness; want of relation orappropriateness.Let not the foreignness of the subject hinder you from endeavoring toset me right. Locke.A foreignness of complexion. G. Eliot.
FOREIN
Foreign. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOREJUDGE
To judge beforehand, or before hearing the facts and proof; toprejudge.
FOREJUDGER
A judgment by which one is deprived or put of a right or thingin question.
FOREJUDGMENT
Prejudgment. [Obs.] Spenser.
FOREKNOW
To have previous knowledge of; to know beforehand.Who would the miseries of man foreknow Dryden.
FOREKNOWABLE
That may be foreknown. Dr. H. More.
FOREKNOWER
One who foreknows.
FOREKNOWINGLY
With foreknowledge.He who . . . foreknowingly loses his life. Jer. Taylor.
FOREKNOWLEDGE
Knowledge of a thing before it happens, or of whatever is tohappen; prescience.If I foreknew, Foreknowledge had no influence on their fault. Milton.
FOREL
A kind of parchment for book covers. See Forrill.
FORELAND
A piece of ground between the wall of a place and the moat.Farrow.
FORELEADER
One who leads others by his example; aguide.
FORELEND
See Forlend. [Obs.]As if that life to losse they had forelent. Spenser.
FORELET
See Forlet. [Obs.] Holland.
FORELIE
To lie in front of. [Obs.]Which forelay Athwart her snowy breast. Spenser.
FORELIFT
To lift up in front. [Obs.]
FORELOCK
A cotter or split pin, as in a slot in a bolt, to preventretraction; a linchpin; a pin fastening the cap-square of a gun.Forelock bolt, a bolt retained by a key, gib, or cotter passingthrough a slot.-- Forelock hook (Rope Making), a winch or whirl by which a bunch ofthree yarns is twisted into a standard. Knight.-- To take time, or occasion, by the forelock, to make prompt use ofanything; not to let slip an opportunity.Time is painted with a lock before and bald behind, signifyingthereby that we must take time by the forelock; for when it is oncepast, there is no recalling it. Swift.On occasion's forelock watchful wait. Milton.
FORELOOK
To look beforehand or forward. [Obs.] Spenser.
FOREMAN
The first or chief man; as:(a) The chief man of a jury, who acts as their speaker.(b) The chief of a set of hands employed in a shop, or on works ofany kind, who superintends the rest; an overseer.
FOREMAST
The mast nearest the bow. Foremast hand or man (Naut.), acommon sailor; also, a man stationed to attend to the gear of theforemast.
FOREMEANT
Intended beforehand; premeditated. [Obs.] Spenser.
FOREMENTIONED
Mentioned before; already cited; aforementioned. Addison.
FOREMILK
The milk secreted just before, or directly after, the birth ofa child or of the young of an animal; colostrum.
FOREMOST
First in time or place; most advanced; chief in rank ordignity; as, the foremost troops of an army.THat struck the foremost man of all this world. Shak.
FOREMOSTLY
In the foremost place or order; among the foremost. J. Webster.
FOREMOTHER
A female ancestor.
FORENAME
A name that precedes the family name or surname; a first name.Selden.
FORENAMED
Named before; aforenamed.
FORENDIHAZ
See Legislature.
FORENENST
Over against; opposite to. [Now dialectic]The land forenenst the Greekish shore. Fairfax.
FORENOON
The early part of the day, from morning to meridian, or noon.
FORENOTICE
Notice or information of an event before it happens;forewarning. [R.] Rymer.
FORENSAL
Forensic. [R.]
FORENSIC
Belonging to courts of judicature or to public discussion anddebate; used in legal proceedings, or in public discussions;argumentative; rhetorical; as, forensic eloquence or disputes.Forensic medicine, medical jurisprudence; medicine in its relationsto law.
FORENSICAL
Forensic. Berkley.
FOREORDAIN
To ordain or appoint beforehand; to preordain; to predestinate;to predetermine. Hooker.
FOREORDINATE
To foreordain.
FOREORDINATION
Previous ordination or appointment; predetermination;predestination.
FOREPAST
Bygone. [Obs.] Shak.
FOREPRIZE
To prize or rate beforehand. [Obs.] Hooker.
FOREPROMISED
Promised beforehand; preรซngaged. Bp. Hall.
FOREQUOTED
Cited before; quoted in a foregoing part of the treatise oressay.
FORERAN
imp. of Forerun.
FORERANK
The first rank; the front.
FOREREACH
To advance or gain upon; -- said of a vessel that gains uponanother when sailing closehauled.
FOREREAD
To tell beforehand; to signify by tokens; to predestine. [Obs.]Spenser.
FORERECITED
Named or recited before. "The forerecited practices." Shak.
FOREREMEMBERED
Called to mind previously. Bp. Montagu.
FORERIGHT
Ready; directly forward; going before. [Obs.] "A forerightwind." Chapman.
FORERUNNER
A piece of rag terminating the log line.
FORESAID
Mentioned before; aforesaid.
FORESAY
To foretell. [Obs.]Her danger nigh that sudden change foresaid. Fairfax.
FORESEE
To have or exercise foresight. [Obs.]
FORESEEN
, or (strictly) p. p. Provided; in case that; on conditionthat. [Obs.]One manner of meat is most sure to every complexion, foreseen that itbe alway most commonly in conformity of qualities, with the personthat eateth. Sir T. Elyot.
FORESEER
One who foresees or foreknows.
FORESEIZE
To seize beforehand.
FORESHADOW
To shadow or typi Dryden.
FORESHEW
See Foreshow.
FORESHIP
The fore part of a ship. [Obs.]
FORESHORTEN
To represent on a plane surface, as if extended in a directiontoward the spectator or nearly so; to shorten by drawing inperspective.
FORESHORTENING
Representation in a foreshortened mode or way.
FORESHOT
In distillation of low wines, the first portion of spirit thatcomes over, being a fluid abounding in fusel oil. Knight.
FORESHOW
To show or exhibit beforehand; to give foreknowledge of; toprognosticate; to foretell.Your looks foreshow You have a gentle heart. Shak.Next, like Aurora, Spenser rose, Whose purple blush the dayforeshows. Denham.
FORESHOWER
One who predicts.
FORESIGHT
Any sight or reading of the leveling staff, except thebacksight; any sight or bearing taken by a compass or theodolite in aforward direction.
FORESIGHTED
Sagacious; prudent; provident for the future. Bartram.
FORESIGHTFUL
Foresighted. [Obs.]
FORESIGNIFY
To signify beforehand; to foreshow; to typify. Milton.
FORESKIN
The fold of skin which covers the glans of the penis; theprepuce.
FORESKIRT
The front skirt of a garment, in distinction from the train.Honor's train Is longer than his foreskirt. Shak.
FORESLACK
See Forslack.
FORESLEEVE
The sleeve below the elbow.
FORESLOW
To make slow; to hinder; to obstruct. [Obs.] See Forslow, v. t.No stream, no wood, no mountain could foreslow Their hasty pace.Fairfax.
FORESPEAK
See Forspeak.
FORESPEAKING
A prediction; also, a preface. [Obs.] Camden. Huloet.
FORESPEECH
A preface. [Obs.] Sherwood.
FORESPENT
Already spent; gone by; past. [Obs.] Shak.
FORESPURRER
One who rides before; a harbinger. [Obs.] Shak.
FOREST
A large extent or precinct of country, generally waste andwoody, belonging to the sovereign, set apart for the keeping of gamefor his use, not inclosed, but distinguished by certain limits, andprotected by certain laws, courts, and officers of its own. Burrill.
FORESTAFF
An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes ofheavenly bodies, now superseded by the sextant; -- called also cross-staff. Brande & C.
FORESTAL
Of or pertaining to forests; as, forestal rights.
FORESTALL
To obstruct or stop up, as a way; to stop the passage of onhighway; to intercept on the road, as goods on the way to market. Toforestall the market, to buy or contract for merchandise or provisionon its way to market, with the intention of selling it again at ahigher price; to dissuade persons from bringing their goods orprovisions there; or to persuade them to enhance the price whenthere. This was an offense at law in England until 1844. Burrill.
FORESTALLER
One who forestalls; esp., one who forestalls the market. Locke.
FORESTAY
A large, strong rope, reaching from the foremast head to thebowsprit, to support the mast. See Illust. under Ship.
FORESTER
A lepidopterous insect belonging to Alypia and allied genera;as, the eight-spotted forester (A. octomaculata), which in the larvalstate is injurious to the grapevine.
FORESTICK
Front stick of a hearth fire.
FORESTRY
The art of forming or of cultivating forests; the management ofgrowing timber.
FORETASTE
A taste beforehand; enjoyment in advance; anticipation.
FORETASTER
One who tastes beforehand, or before another.
FORETEACH
To teach beforehand. [Obs.]
FORETELL
To predict; to tell before occurence; to prophesy; to foreshow.Deeds then undone my faithful tongue foretold. Pope.Prodigies, foretelling the future eminence and luster of hischaracter. C. Middleton.
FORETELLER
One who predicts. Boyle.
FORETHINK
To contrive beforehand. [Obs.]
FORETHOUGHT
Thought of, or planned, beforehand; aforethought; prepense;hence, deliberate. "Forethought malice." Bacon.
FORETHOUGHTFUL
Having forethought. [R.]
FORETIME
The past; the time before the present. "A very dim foretime."J. C. Shairp.
FORETOKEN
Prognostic; previous omen. Sir P. Sidney.
FORETOP
The platform at the head of the foremast.
FOREVOUCHED
Formerly vouched or avowed; affirmed in advance. [R.] Shak.
FOREWARD
The van; the front. [Obs.]My foreward shall be drawn out all in length, Consisting equally ofhorse and foot. Shak.
FOREWARN
To warn beforehand; to give previous warning, admonition,information, or notice to; to caution in advance.We were forewarned of your coming. Shak.
FOREWASTE
See Forewaste. Gascoigne.
FOREWEND
To go before. [Obs.] Spenser.
FOREWISH
To wish beforehand.
FOREWITE
To foreknow. [Obs.] [Written also forwete.] Chaucer.
FOREWOMAN
A woman who is chief; a woman who has charge of the work orworkers in a shop or other place; a head woman. Tatler. W. Besant.
FOREWORD
A preface. Furnvall.
FOREWORN
Worn out; wasted; used up. [Archaic]Old foreworn stories almost forgotten. Brydges.
FOREWOT
, 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forewite. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOREYARD
The lowermost yard on the foremast.
FORFALTURE
Forfeiture. [Obs.]
FORFEIT
Lost or alienated for an offense or crime; liable to penalseizure.Thy wealth being forfeit to the state. Shak.To tread the forfeit paradise. Emerson.
FORFEITABLE
Liable to be forfeited; subject to forfeiture.For the future, uses shall be subject to the statutes of mortmain,and forfeitable, like the lands themselves. Blackstone.
FORFEITER
One who incurs a penalty of forfeiture.
FORFEND
To prohibit; to forbid; to avert. [Archaic]Which peril heaven forefend! Shak.
FORFERED
Excessively alarmed; in great fear. [Obs.] "Forfered of hisdeath." Chaucer.
FORFETE
To incur a penalty; to transgress. [Obs.]And all this suffered our Lord Jesus Christ that never forfeted.Chaucer.
FORFEX
A pair of shears. Pope.
FORFICATE
Deeply forked, as the tail of certain birds.
FORFICULA
A genus of insects including the earwigs. See Earwig, 1.
FORGATHER
To convene; to gossip; to meet accidentally. [Scot.] Jamieson.Within that circle he forgathered with many a fool. Wilson.
FORGAVE
imp. of Forgive.
FORGE
To move heavily and slowly, as a ship after the sails arefurled; to work one's way, as one ship in outsailing another; -- usedespecially in the phrase to forge ahead. Totten.And off she [a ship] forged without a shock. De Quincey.
FORGEMAN
A skilled smith, who has a hammerer to assist him.
FORGER
One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier.
FORGET-ME-NOT
A small herb, of the genus Myosotis (M. palustris, incespitosa,etc.), bearing a beautiful blue flower, and extensively consideredthe emblem of fidelity.
FORGETFULLY
In a forgetful manner.
FORGETIVE
Inventive; productive; capable. [Obs.] Shak.
FORGETTABLE
Liable to be, or that may be, forgotten. Carlyle.
FORGETTER
One who forgets; a heedless person. Johnson.
FORGETTINGLY
By forgetting.
FORGING
A piece of forged work in metal; -- a general name for a pieceof hammered iron or steel.There are very few yards in the world at which such forgings could beturned out. London Times.
FORGIVABLE
Capable of being forgiven; pardonable; venial. Sherwood.
FORGIVER
One who forgives. Johnson.
FORGIVING
Disposed to forgive; inclined to overlook offenses; mild;merciful; compassionate; placable; as, a forgiving temper.-- For*giv"ing*ly, adv.-- For*giv"ing*ness, n. J. C. Shairp.
FORGO
To pass by; to leave. See 1st Forego.For sith [since] I shall forgoon my liberty At your request. Chaucer.And four [days] since Florimell the court forwent. Spenser.
FORGOT
imp. & p. p. of Forget.
FORGOTTEN
p. p. of Forget.
FORHALL
To harass; to torment; to distress. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORHEND
To seize upon. [Obs.]
FORINSECAL
Foreign; alien. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.
FORISFAMILIATE
Literally, to put out of a family; hence, to portion off, so asto exclude further claim of inheritance; to emancipate (as a with hisown consent) from paternal authority. Blackstone.
FORISFAMILIATION
The act of forisfamiliating.
FORK
To raise, or pitch with a fork, as hay; to dig or turn overwith a fork, as the soil.Forking the sheaves on the high-laden cart. Prof. Wilson.To fork over or out, to hand or pay over, as money. [Slang] G. Eliot.
FORK-TAILED
Having the outer tail feathers longer than the median ones;swallow-tailed; -- said of many birds. Fork-tailed flycatcher(Zoรถl.), a tropical American flycatcher (Milvulus tyrannus).-- Fork-tailed gull (Zoรถl.), a gull of the genus Xema, of twospecies, esp. X. Sabinii of the Arctic Ocean.-- Fork-tailed kite (Zoรถl.), a graceful American kite (Elanoidesforficatus); -- called also swallow-tailed kite.
FORKERVE
See Forcarve, v. t.
FORKINESS
The quality or state or dividing in a forklike manner.
FORKLESS
Having no fork.
FORKY
Opening into two or more parts or shoots; forked; furcated."Forky tongues." Pope.
FORLAFT
p. p. of Forleave. Chaucer.
FORLAY
To lie in wait for; to ambush.An ambushed thief forlays a traveler. Dryden.
FORLEAVE
To leave off wholly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORLEND
To give up wholly. [Obs.]
FORLESE
To lose utterly. [Obs.] haucer.
FORLET
To give up; to leave; to abandon. [Obs.] "To forlet sin."Chaucer.
FORLIE
See Forlie.
FORLORE
oForlese. [Obs.]The beasts their caves, the birds their neforlore. Fairfax.
FORLORNLY
In a forlorn manner. Pollok.
FORLORNNESS
State of being forlorn. Boyle.
FORLYE
Same as Forlie. [Obs.]
FORM
A suffix used to denote in the form or shape of, resembling,etc.; as, valiform; oviform.
FORMALDEHYDE
A colorless, volatile liquid, H2CO, resembling acetic or ethylaldehyde, and chemically intermediate between methyl alcohol andformic acid.
FORMALIN
An aqueous solution of formaldehyde, used as a preservative inmuseums and as a disinfectant.
FORMALISM
The practice or the doctrine of strict adherence to, ordependence on, external forms, esp. in matters of religion.Official formalism. Sir H. Rawlinson.
FORMALIST
One overattentive to forms, or too much confined to them; esp.,one who rests in external religious forms, or observes strictly theoutward forms of worship, without possessing the life and spirit ofreligion.As far a formalist from wisdom sits, In judging eyes, as libertinesfrom wits. Young.
FORMALITY
The dress prescribed for any body of men, academical,municipal, or sacerdotal. [Obs.]The doctors attending her in their formalities as far as Shotover.Fuller.
FORMALIZE
To affect formality. [Obs.] ales.
FORMALLY
In a formal manner; essentially; characteristically; expressly;regularly; ceremoniously; precisely.That which formally makes this [charity] a Christian grace, is thespring from which it flows. Smalridge.You and your followers do stand formally divided against theauthorized guides of the church and rest of the people. Hooker.
FORMAT
The shape and size of a book; hence, its external form.
FORMATE
A salt of formic acid. [Written also formiate.]
FORMATION
The arrangement of a body of troops, as in a square, column,etc. Farrow.
FORMATIVE
Serving to form; derivative; not radical; as, a terminationmerely formative.
FORME
Same as Patรฉ or Pattรฉ.
FORMED
Arranged, as stars in a constellation; as, formed stars. [R.]
FORMEDON
A writ of right for a tenant in tail in case of adiscontinuance of the estate tail. This writ has been abolished.
FORMELL
The female of a hawk or falcon.
FORMERET
One of the half ribs against the walls in a ceiling vaultedwith ribs.
FORMERLY
In time past, either in time immediately preceding or at anyindefinite distance; of old; heretofore.
FORMFUL
Creative; imaginative. [R.] "The formful brain." Thomson.
FORMIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, ants; as, formic acid; in anextended sense, pertaining to, or derived from, formic acid; as,formic ether. Amido formic acid, carbamic acid.-- Formic acid, a colorless, mobile liquid, HCO.OH, of a sharp, acidtaste, occurring naturally in ants, nettles, pine needles, etc., andproduced artifically in many ways, as by the oxidation of methylalcohol, by the reduction of carbonic acid or the destructivedistillation of oxalic acid. It is the first member of the fattyacids in the paraffin series, and is homologous with acetic acid.
FORMICA
A Linnรฆan genus of hymenopterous insects, including the commonants. See Ant.
FORMICAROID
Like or pertaining to the family Formicaridรฆ or ant thrushes.
FORMICARY
The nest or dwelling of a swarm of ants; an ant-hill.
FORMICATE
Resembling, or pertaining to, an ant or ants.
FORMICATION
A sensation resembling that made by the creeping of ants on theskin. Dunglison.
FORMICID
Pertaining to the ants.-- n.
FORMIDABILITY
Formidableness. Walpole.
FORMIDABLE
Exciting fear or apprehension; impressing dread; adapted toexcite fear and deter from approach, encounter, or undertaking;alarming.They seemed to fear the formodable sight. Dryden.I swell my preface into a volume, and make it formidable, when yousee so many pages behind. Drydn.
FORMIDABLENESS
The quality of being formidable, or adapted to excite dread.Boyle.
FORMIDABLY
In a formidable manner.
FORMIDOLOSE
Very much afraid. [Obs.] Bailey.
FORMING
The act or process of giving form or shape to anything; as, inshipbuilding, the exact shaping of partially shaped timbers.
FORMLESS
Shapeless; without a determinate form; wanting regularity ofshape.-- Form"less*ly, adv.-- Form"less*ness, n.
FORMULA
A written confession of faith; a formal statement of foctrines.
FORMULARISTIC
Pertaining to, or exhibiting, formularization. Emerson.
FORMULARIZATION
The act of formularizing; a formularized or formulatedstatement or exhibition. C. Kingsley.
FORMULARIZE
To reduce to a forula; to formulate.
FORMULARY
Stated; prescribed; ritual.
FORMULATE
To reduce to, or express in, a formula; to put in a clear anddefinite form of statement or expression. G. P. Marsh.
FORMULATION
The act, process, or result of formulating or reducing to aformula.
FORMULE
A set or prescribed model; a formula. [Obs.] Johnson.
FORMULIZATION
The act or process of reducing to a formula; the state of beingformulized.
FORMULIZE
To reduce to a formula; to formulate. Emerson.
FORNCAST
Predestined. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORNICAL
Relating to a fornix.
FORNICATE
To commit fornication; to have unlawful sexual intercourse.
FORNICATOR
An unmarried person, male or female, who has criminalintercourse with the other sex; one guilty of fornication.
FORNICATRESS
A woman guilty of fornication. Shak.
FOROLD
Very old. [Obs.]A bear's skin, coal-black, forold. Chaucer.
FORPASS
To pass by or along; to pass over. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORPINE
To waste away completely by suffering or torment. [Archaic]"Pale as a forpined ghost." Chaucer.
FORRAY
To foray; to ravage; to pillage.For they that morn had forrayed all the land. Fairfax.
FORRILL
Lambskin parchment; vellum; forel. McElrath.
FORSAKER
One who forsakes or deserts.
FORSAY
To forbid; to renounce; to forsake; to deny. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORSHAPE
To render misshapen. [Obs.] Gower.
FORSLACK
To neglect by idleness; to delay or to waste by sloth. [Obs.]Spenser.
FORSLOUTHE
To lose by sloth or negligence. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORSLOW
To delay; to hinder; to neglect; to put off. [Obs.] Bacon.
FORSLUGGE
To lsoe by idleness or slotch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORSOOTH
In truth; in fact; certainly; very well; -- formerly used as anexpression of deference or respect, especially to woman; now usedironically or contemptuously.A fit man, forsooth, to govern a realm! Hayward.Our old English word forsooth has been changed for the French madam.Guardian.
FORSPENT
Wasted in strength; tired; exhausted. [Archaic]A gentleman almost forspent with speed. Shak.
FORSTALL
To forestall. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORSTER
A forester. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORSTRAUGHT
Distracted. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORSWAT
Spent with heat; covered with sweat. [Obs.] P. Sidney.
FORSWEAR
To swear falsely; to commit perjury. Shak.
FORSWEARER
One who rejects of renounces upon oath; one who swears a falseoath.
FORSWONK
Overlabored; exhausted; worn out. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORSWORE
imp. of Forswear.
FORSWORN
p. p. of Forswear.
FORSWORNNESS
State of being forsworn. [R.]
FORSYTHIA
A shrub of the Olive family, with yellow blossoms.
FORT
A strong or fortified place; usually, a small fortified place,occupied only by troops, surrounded with a ditch, rampart, andparapet, or with palisades, stockades, or other means of defense; afortification.Detached works, depending solely on their own strength, belong to theclass of works termed forts. Farrow.
FORTALICE
A small outwork of a fortification; a fortilage; -- called alsofortelace.
FORTE
Loudly; strongly; powerfully.
FORTED
Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended,as by forts. [R.] Shak.
FORTH
Forth from; out of. [Archaic]Some forth their cabins peep. Donne.
FORTHBY
See Forby.
FORTHCOMING
Ready or about to appear; making appearance.
FORTHGOING
A going forth; an utterance. A. Chalmers.
FORTHINK
To repent; to regret; to be sorry for; to cause regret. [Obs.]"Let it forthink you." Tyndale.That me forthinketh, quod this January. Chaucer.
FORTHPUTING
Bold; forward; aggressive.
FORTHRIGHT
Straight forward; in a straight direction. [Archaic] Sir P.Sidney.
FORTHRIGHTNESS
Straightforwardness; explicitness; directness. [Archaic]Dante's concise forthrightness of phrase. Hawthorne.
FORTHWARD
Forward. [Obs.] Bp. Fisher.
FORTHWITH
As soon as the thing required may be done by reasonableexertion confined to that object. Bouvier.
FORTHY
Therefore. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORTIES
See Forty.
FORTIETH
One of forty equal parts into which one whole is divided; thequotient of a unit divided by forty; one next in order after thethirty-ninth.
FORTIFIABLE
Capable of being fortified. Johnson.
FORTIFIER
One who, or that which, fortifies, strengthens, supports, orupholds.
FORTIFY
To raise defensive works. Milton.
FORTILAGE
A little fort; a blockhouse. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORTIN
A little fort; a fortlet. [Obs.]
FORTISSIMO
Very loud; with the utmost strength or loudness.
FORTITION
Casual choice; fortuitous selection; hazard. [R.]No mode of election operating in the spirit of fortition or rotationcan be generally good. Burke.
FORTITUDINOUS
Having fortitude; courageous. [R.] Gibbon.
FORTLET
A little fort. [R.] Bailey.
FORTNIGHT
The space of fourteen days; two weeks.
FORTNIGHTLY
Occurring or appearing once in a fortnight; as, a fortnightlymeeting of a club; a fortnightly magazine, or other publication.-- adv.
FORTREAD
To tread down; to trample upon. [Obs.]In hell shall they be all fortroden of devils. Chaucer.
FORTRESS
A fortified place; a large and permanent fortification,sometimes including a town; a fort; a castle; a stronghold; a placeof defense or security.
FORTUITOUS
Happening independently of human will or means of foresight;resulting from unavoidable physical causes. Abbott.
FORTUITY
Accident; chance; casualty. D. Forbes (1750).
FORTUNATELY
In a fortunate manner; luckily; successfully; happily.
FORTUNATENESS
The condition or quality of being fortunate; good luck;success; happiness.
FORTUNE
To fall out; to happen.It fortuned the same night that a Christian, serving a Turk in thecamp, secretely gave the watchmen warning. Knolles.
FORTUNELESS
Luckless; also, destitute of a fortune or portion. Spenser.
FORTUNIZE
To regulate the fortune of; to make happy. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORTY
Four times ten; thirtynine and one more.
FORTY-NINER
One of those who went to California in the rush for gold in1849; an argonaut. [Colloq., U. S.]
FORTY-SPOT
The Tasmanian forty-spotted diamond bird (Pardalotusquadragintus).
FORWAKED
Tired out with excessive waking or watching. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORWANDER
To wander away; to go astray; to wander far and to weariness.[Obs.]
FORWARD
An agreement; a covenant; a promise. [Obs.]Tell us a tale anon, as forward is. Chaucer.
FORWARDER
One employed in forwarding.
FORWARDING
The process of putting a book into its cover, and making itready for the finisher.
FORWARDLY
Eagerly; hastily; obtrusively.
FORWARDNESS
The quality of being forward; cheerful readiness; promtness;as, the forwardness of Christians in propagating the gospel.
FORWARDS
Same as Forward.
FORWASTE
To desolate or lay waste utterly. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORWEARY
To weary extremely; to dispirit. [Obs.] Spenser.
FORWEEP
To weep much. [Obs.]
FORWETE
See Forewite. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORWHY
Wherefore; because. [Obs.]
FORWORN
Much worn. [Obs.]A silly man, in simple weeds forworn. Spenser.
FORWOT
pres. indic. 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forwete. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORWRAP
To wrap up; to conceal. [Obs.]All mote be said and nought excused, nor hid, nor forwrapped.Chaucer.
FORYELDE
To repay; to requite. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORYETE
To forget. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FORYETTEN
p. p. of Foryete. Chaucer.
FORZANDO
See Sforzato.
FOSSA
A pit, groove, cavity, or depression, of greater or less depth;as, the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; the nasal fossรฆcontaining the nostrils in most birds.
FOSSANE
A species of civet (Viverra fossa) resembling the genet.
FOSSE
A ditch or moat.
FOSSET
A faucet. [Obs.] Shak.
FOSSETTE
A small, deep-centered ulcer of the transparent cornea.
FOSSEWAY
One of the great military roads constructed by the Romans inEngland and other parts of Europe; -- so called from the fosse orditch on each side for keeping it dry.
FOSSICK
To search for gold by picking at stone or earth or among rootsin isolated spots, picking over abandoned workings, etc.; hence, tosteal gold or auriferous matter from another's claim. [Australia]
FOSSIL
Like or pertaining to fossils; contained in rocks. whetherpetrified or not; as, fossil plants, shells. Fossil copal, a resinoussubstance, first found in the blue clay at Highgate, near London, andapparently a vegetable resin, partly changed by remaining in theearth.-- Fossil cork, flax, paper, or wood, varieties of amianthus.-- Fossil farina, a soft carbonate of lime.-- Fossil ore, fossiliferous red hematite. Raymond.
FOSSILIFEROUS
Containing or composed of fossils.
FOSSILIFICATION
The process of becoming fossil.
FOSSILIST
One who is versed in the science of fossils; a paleontologist.Joseph Black.
FOSSILIZATION
The process of converting, or of being converted, into afossil.
FOSSILIZED
Converted into a fossil; antiquated; firmly fixed in views oropinions.A fossilized sample of confused provincialism. Earle.
FOSSORES
A group of hymenopterous insects including the sand wasps. Theyexcavate cells in earth, where they deposit their eggs, with thebodies of other insects for the food of the young when hatched.[Written also Fossoria.]
FOSSORIA
See Fossores.
FOSSORIAL
Fitted for digging, adapted for burrowing or digging; as, afossorial foot; a fossorial animal.
FOSSORIOUS
Adapted for digging; -- said of the legs of certain insects.
FOSSULATE
Having, or surrounded by, long, narrow depressions or furrows.
FOSTER
To be nourished or trained up together. [Obs.] Spenser.
FOSTERAGE
The care of a foster child; the charge of nursing. Sir W.Raleigh.
FOSTERER
One who, or that which, fosters.
FOSTERLING
A foster child.
FOSTERMENT
Food; nourishment. [Obs.]
FOSTRESS
A woman who feeds and cherishes; a nurse. B. Jonson.
FOTHER
To stop (a leak in a ship at sea) by drawing under its bottom athrummed sail, so that the pressure of the water may force it intothe crack. Totten.
FOTIVE
Nourishing. [Obs.] T. Carew (1633).
FOTMAL
Seventy pounds of lead.
FOUCAULT CURRENT
An eddy current.
FOUGHT
imp. & p. p. of Fight.
FOUGHTEN
p. p. of Fight. [Archaic]
FOUL
A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOUL-MOUTHED
Using language scurrilous, opprobrious, obscene, or profane;abusive.So foul-mouthed a witness never appeared in any cause. Addison.
FOUL-SPOKEN
Using profane, scurrilous, slanderous, or obscene language.Shak.
FOULARD
A thin, washable material of silk, or silk and cotton,originally imported from India, but now also made elsewhere.
FOULDER
To flash, as lightning; to lighten; to gleam; to thunder.[Obs.] "Flames of fouldering heat." Spenser.
FOULE
Foully. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOULLY
In a foul manner; filthily; nastily; shamefully; unfairly;dishonorably.I foully wronged him; do forgive me, do. Gay.
FOULNESS
The quality or condition of being foul.
FOUMART
The European polecat; -- called also European ferret, andfitchew. See Polecat. [Written also foulmart, foulimart, andfulimart.]
FOUND
imp. & p. p. of Find.
FOUNDATION
The lowest and supporting part or member of a wall, includingthe base course (see Base course (a), under Base, n.) and footingcourses; in a frame house, the whole substructure of masonry.
FOUNDATIONER
One who derives support from the funds or foundation of acollege or school. [Eng.]
FOUNDATIONLESS
Having no foundation.
FOUNDER
One who founds, establishes, and erects; one who lays afoundation; an author; one from whom anything originates; one whoendows.
FOUNDEROUS
Difficult to travel; likely to trip one up; as, a founderousroad. [R.] Burke.
FOUNDERSHAFT
The first shaft sunk. Raymond.
FOUNDERY
Same as Foundry.
FOUNDING
The art of smelting and casting metals.
FOUNDLING
A deserted or exposed infant; a child found without a parent orowner. Foundling hospital, a hospital for foundlings.
FOUNDRESS
A female founder; a woman who founds or establishes, or whoendows with a fund.
FOUNT
A font.
FOUNTAINLESS
Having no fountain; destitute of springs or sources of water.Barren desert, fountainless and dry. Milton.
FOUNTFUL
Full of fountains. Pope.
FOUR
One more than three; twice two.
FOUR-CORNERED
Having four corners or angles.
FOUR-CYCLE
A four-stroke cycle, as the Otto cycle, for an internal-combustion engine. -- Four"-cy`cle, a.
FOUR-IN-HAND
Consisting of four horses controlled by one person; as, a four-in-hand team; drawn by four horses driven by one person; as, a four-in-hand coach.-- n.
FOUR-POSTER
A large bedstead with tall posts at the corners to supportcurtains. [Colloq.]
FOUR-WAY
Allowing passage in either of four directions; as, a four-waycock, or valve. Francis. Four-way cock, a cock connected with fourpipes or ports, and having two or more passages in the plug, by whichthe adjacent pipes or ports may be made to communicate; formerly usedas a valve in the steam engine, and now for various other purposes.In the illustration, a leads to the upper end of a steam enginecylinder, and b to the lower end; c is the steam pipe, and d theexhaust pipe.
FOUR-WHEELED
Having four wheels.
FOUR-WHEELER
A vehicle having four wheels. [Colloq.]
FOURCHE
Having the ends forked or branched, and the ends of thebranches terminating abruptly as if cut off; -- said of an ordinary,especially of a cross.
FOURCHETTE
An instrument used to raise and support the tongue during thecutting of the frรฆnum.
FOURDRINIER
A machine used in making paper; -- so named from an earlyinventor of improvements in this class of machinery.
FOURFOLD
Four times; quadruple; as, a fourfold division.He snall restore the lamb fourfold. 2 Sam. xii. 6.
FOURFOOTED
Having four feet; quadruped; as, fourfooted beasts.
FOURIERISM
The coรถperative socialistic system of Charles Fourier, aFrenchman, who recommended the reorganization of society into smallcommunities, living in common.
FOURLING
A compound or twin crystal consisting of four individuals.
FOURNEAU
The chamber of a mine in which the powder is placed.
FOURRIER
A harbinger. [Obs.]
FOURSCORE
Four times twenty; eighty.
FOURSOME
Consisting of four; requiring four participants. [Scot. orGolf]
FOURSQUARE
Having four sides and four equal angles. Sir W. Raleigh.
FOURTEEN
Four and ten more; twice seven.
FOURTEENTH
The octave of the seventh.
FOURTH
The interval of two tones and a semitone, embracing fourdiatonic degrees of the scale; the subdominant of any key. TheFourth, specifically, un the United States, the fourth day of July,the anniversary of the declaration of American independence; as, tocelebrate the Fourth.
FOURTHLY
In the fourth place.
FOUSSA
A viverrine animal of Madagascar (Cryptoprocta ferox). Itresembles a cat in size and form, and has retractile claws.
FOUTER
A despicable fellow. [Prov. Eng.] Brockett.
FOUTRA
A fig; -- a word of contempt. [Obs.]A foutra for the world and wordlings base! Shak.
FOUTY
Despicable. [Obs.]
FOVEA
A slight depression or pit; a fossa.
FOVEATE
Having pits or depressions; pitted.
FOVEOLA
A small depression or pit; a fovea.
FOVEOLATE
Having small pits or depression, as the receptacle in somecomposite flowers.
FOVEOLATED
Foveolate.
FOVILLA
One of the fine granules contained in the protoplasm of apollen grain.
FOWL
To catch or kill wild fowl, for game or food, as by shooting,or by decoys, nets, etc.Such persons as may lawfully hunt, fish, or fowl. Blackstone.Fowling piece, a light gun with smooth bore, adapted for the use ofsmall shot in killing birds or small quadrupeds.
FOWLER
A sportsman who pursues wild fowl, or takes or kills for food.
FOWLERITE
A variety of rhodonite, from Franklin Furnace, New Jersey,containing some zinc.
FOX
A carnivorous animal of the genus Vulpes, family Canidรฆ, ofmany species. The European fox (V. vulgaris or V. vulpes), theAmerican red fox (V. fulvus), the American gray fox (V. Virginianus),and the arctic, white, or blue, fox (V. lagopus) are well-knownspecies.
FOX-HUNTING
Pertaining to or engaged in the hunting of foxes; fond ofhunting foxes.
FOXEARTH
A hole in the earth to which a fox resorts to hide himself.
FOXERY
Behavior like that of a fox; [Obs.] Chaucer.
FOXES
See Fox, n., 7.
FOXGLOVE
Any plant of the genus Digitalis. The common English foxglove(Digitalis purpurea) is a handsome perennial or biennial plant, whoseleaves are used as a powerful medicine, both as a sedative anddiuretic. See Digitalis.Pan through the pastures oftentimes hath run To pluck the speckledfoxgloves from their stem. W. Browne.
FOXHOUND
One of a special breed of hounds used for chasing foxes.
FOXISH
Foxlike. [Obs.]
FOXLIKE
Resembling a fox in his characteristic qualities; cunning;artful; foxy.
FOXLY
Foxlike. [Obs.] "Foxly craft." Latimer.
FOXSHIP
Foxiness; craftiness. [R.] Shak.
FOXTAIL
The name of several kinds of grass having a soft dense head offlowers, mostly the species of Alopecurus and Setaria.
FOYSON
See Foison.
FOZINESS
The state of being fozy; spiritlessness; dullness. [Scot.][The Whigs'] foziness can no longer be concealed. Blackwood's.
FOZY
Spongy; soft; fat and puffy. [Scot.]
FRA
Fro. [Old Eng. & Scot.]
FRAB
To scold; to nag. [Prov. Eng.]
FRABBIT
Crabbed; peevish. [Prov. Eng.]
FRACAS
An uproar; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl.
FRACHO
A shallow iron pan to hold glass ware while being annealed.
FRACID
Rotten from being too ripe; overripe. [Obs.] Blount.
FRACT
To break; to violate. [Obs.] Shak.
FRACTED
Having a part displaced, as if broken; -- said of an ordinary.Macaulay.
FRACTION
One or more aliquot parts of a unit or whole number; anexpression for a definite portion of a unit or magnitude. Common, orVulgar, fraction, a fraction in which the number of equal parts intowhich the integer is supposed to be divided is indicated by figuresor letters, called the denominator, written below a line, over whichis the numerator, indicating the number of these parts included inthe fraction; as -- Complex fraction, a fraction having a fraction ormixed number in the numerator or denominator, or in both. Davies &Peck.-- Compound fraction, a fraction of a fraction; two or morefractions connected by of.-- Continued fraction, Decimal fraction, Partial fraction, etc. Seeunder Continued, Decimal, Partial, etc.-- Improper fraction, a fraction in which the numerator is greaterthan the denominator.-- Proper fraction, a fraction in which the numerator is less thanthe denominator.
FRACTIONALLY
By fractions or separate portions; as, to distill a liquidfractionally, that is, so as to separate different portions.
FRACTIONARY
Fractional. [Obs.]
FRACTIONATE
To separate into different portions or fractions, as in thedistillation of liquids.
FRACTIOUS
Apt to break out into a passion; apt to scold; cross; snappish;ugly; unruly; as, a fractious man; a fractious horse.
FRACTURAL
Pertaining to, or consequent on, a fracture. [R.]
FRACTURE
The breaking of a bone.
FRAENULUM
A frรฆnum.
FRAGILE
Easily broken; brittle; frail; delicate; easily destroyed.The state of ivy is tough, and not fragile. Bacon.
FRAGMENT
A part broken off; a small, detached portion; an imperfectpart; as, a fragment of an ancient writing.Gather up the fragments that remain. John vi. 12.
FRAGMENTAL
Consisting of the pulverized or fragmentary material of rock,as conglomerate, shale, etc.
FRAGMENTARILY
In a fragmentary manner; piecemeal.
FRAGMENTARINESS
The quality or property of being in fragnebts, or brokenpieces, incompleteness; want of continuity. G. Eliot.
FRAGMENTARY
Composed of the fragments of other rocks.
FRAGMENTED
Broken into fragments.
FRAGMENTIST
A writer of fragments; as, the fragmentist of Wolfenbรผttel.[R.]
FRAGOR
A strong or sweet scent. [Obs. & Illegitimate.] Sir T. Herbert.
FRAGRANT
[fragrans. -antis, p.pr. of fragrare to emit a smell offragrance: cf. OF. fragrant. Affecting the olfactory nervesagreeably; sweet of smell; odorous; having or emitting an agreeableperfume.Fragrant the fertile earth After soft showers. Milton.
FRAIGHT
Same as Fraught. [Obs.] Spenser.
FRAIL
A basket made of rushes, used chiefly for containing figs andraisins.
FRAILLY
Weakly; infirmly.
FRAILNESS
Frailty.
FRAISCHEUR
Freshness; coolness. [R.] Dryden.
FRAISE
A large and thick pancake, with slices of bacon in it. [Obs.]Johnson.
FRAISED
Fortified with a fraise.
FRAKEN
A freckle. [Obs.]A few fraknes in his face. Chaucer.
FRAMABLE
Capable of being framed.
FRAMBAESIA
The yaws. See Yaws.
FRAME
To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of theskeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put togetherby cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another. See Dovetail,Halve, v. t., Miter, Tenon, Tooth, Tusk, Scarf, and Splice.
FRAME-UP
A conspiracy or plot, esp. for a malicious or evil purpose, asto incriminate a person on false evidence. [Slang]
FRAMER
One who frames; as, the framer of a building; the framers ofthe Constitution.
FRAMING
A framework, or a sy Framing chisel (Carp.), a heavy chiselwith a socket shank for making mortises.
FRANC
A silver coin of France, and since 1795 the unit of the Frenchmonetary system. It has been adopted by Belgium and Swizerland. It isequivalent to about nineteen cents, or ten pence, and is divided into100 centimes.
FRANC-TIREUR
A French partisan soldier, or one belonging to a corps ofdetached light troops engaged in forays, skirmishes, scouting, etc.
FRANCHISE
A particular privilege conferred by grant from a sovereign or agovernment, and vested in individuals; an imunity or exemption fromordinary jurisdiction; a constitutional or statutory right orprivilege, esp. the right to vote.Election by universal suffrage, as modified by the Constitution, isthe one crowning franchise of the American people. W. H. Seward.
FRANCHISEMENT
Release; deliverance; freedom. Spenser.
FRANCIC
Pertaining to the Franks, or their language; Frankish.
FRANCISCAN
Belonging to the Order of St. Francis of the Franciscans.Franciscan Brothers, pious laymen who devote themselves to usefulworks, such as manual labor schools, and other educationalinstitutions; -- called also Brothers of the Third Order of St.Francis.-- Franciscan Nuns, nuns who follow the rule of t. Francis, esp.those of the Second Order of St. Francis, -- called also Poor Claresor Minoresses.-- Franciscan Tertiaries, the Third Order of St. Francis.
FRANCOLIN
A spurred partidge of the genus Francolinus and allied genera,of Asia and Africa. The common species (F. vulgaris) was formerlycommon in southern Europe, but is now nearly restricted to Asia.
FRANCOLITE
A variety of apatite from Wheal Franco in Devonshire.
FRANGENT
Causing fracture; breaking. [R.] H. Walpole.
FRANGIBILITY
The state or quality of being frangible. Fox.
FRANGIBLE
Capable of being broken; brittle; fragile; easily broken.
FRANGIPANE
A perfume derived from, or imitating the odor of, the flower ofthe red jasmine, a West Indian tree of the genus Plumeria.
FRANGULIN
A yellow crystalline dyestuff, regarded as a glucoside,extracted from a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn; --called also rhamnoxanthin.
FRANION
A paramour; a loose woman; also, a gay, idle fellow. [Obs.]Spenser.
FRANK
A pigsty. [Obs.]
FRANK-CHASE
The liberty or franchise of having a chase; free chase.Burrill.
FRANK-FEE
A species of tenure in fee simple, being the opposite ofancient demesne, or copyhold. Burrill.
FRANK-LAW
The liberty of being sworn in courts, as a juror or witness;one of the ancient privileges of a freeman; free and common law; --an obsolete expression signifying substantially the same as theAmerican expression civil rights. Abbot.
FRANK-MARRIAGE
A certain tenure in tail special; an estate of inheritancegiven to a man his wife (the wife being of the blood of the donor),and descendible to the heirs of their two bodies begotten. [Obs.]Blackstone.
FRANKALMOIGNE
A tenure by which a religious corporation holds lands given tothem and their successors forever, usually on condition of prayingfor the soul of the donor and his heirs; -- called also tenure byfree alms. Burrill.
FRANKFORT BLACK
. A black pigment used in copperplate printing, prepared byburning vine twigs, the lees of wine, etc. McElrath.
FRANKINCENSE
A fragrant, aromatic resin, or gum resin, burned as an incensein religious rites or for medicinal fumigation. The best kinds nowcome from East Indian trees, of the genus Boswellia; a commoner sort,from the Norway spruce (Abies excelsa) and other coniferous trees.The frankincense of the ancient Jews is still unidentified.
FRANKING
A method of forming a joint at the intersection of window-sashbars, by cutting away only enough wood to show a miter.
FRANKISH
Like, or pertaining to, the Franks.
FRANKLIN
An English freeholder, or substantial householder. [Obs.]Chaucer.The franklin, a small landholder of those days. Sir J. Stephen.
FRANKLIN STOVE
. A kind of open stove introduced by Benjamin Franklin, thepeculiar feature of which was that a current of heated air wasdirectly supplied to the room from an air box; -- now applied toother varieties of open stoves.
FRANKLINIC
Of or pertaining to Benjamin Franklin. Franklinic electricity,electricity produced by friction; called also statical electricity.
FRANKLINITE
A kind of mineral of the spinel group.
FRANKLY
In a frank manner; freely.Very frankly he confessed his treasons. Shak.
FRANKNESS
The quality of being frank; candor; openess; ingenuousness;fairness; liberality.
FRANTIC
Mad; raving; furious; violent; wild and disorderly; distracted.Die, frantic wretch, for this accursed deed! Shak.Torrents of frantic abuse. Macaulay.-- Fran"tic*al*ly, adv.-- Fran"tic*ly, adv. Shak.-- Fran"tic*ness, n. Johnson.
FRAP
To draw together; to bind with a view to secure and strengthen,as a vessel by passing cables around it; to tighten; as a tackle bydrawing the lines together. Tottem.
FRAPE
A crowd, a rabble. [Obs.] ares.
FRAPLER
A blusterer; a rowdy. [Obs.]Unpolished, a frapler, and base. B. Jonson.
FRAPPE
Iced; frozen; artificially cooled; as, wine frappรฉ. -- n.
FRAPPING
A lashing binding a thing tightly or binding things together.
FRATER
A monk; also, a frater house. [R.] Shipley. Frater house, anapartament in a convent used as an eating room; a refectory; --called also a fratery.
FRATERNAL
Pf, pertaining to, or involving, brethren; becoming tobrothers; brotherly; as, fraternal affection; a fraternal embrace.-- Fra*ter"nal*ly, adv.An abhorred, a cursed, a fraternal war. Milton.Fraternal love and friendship. Addison.
FRATERNATE
To fraternize; to hold fellowship. Jefferson.
FRATERNIZATION
The act of fraternizing or uniting as brothers.I hope that no French fraternization . . . could so change the heartsof Englishmen. Burke.
FRATERNIZE
To associate or hold fellowship as brothers, or as men of likeoccupation or character; to have brotherly feelings.
FRATERNIZER
One who fraternizes. Burke.
FRATERY
A frater house. See under Frater.
FRATRAGE
A sharing among brothers, or brothers' kin. [Obs.] Crabb.
FRATRICIDAL
Of or pertaining to fratricide; of the nature of fratricide.
FRATRICIDE
One who murders or kills his own brother.
FRAU
In Germany, a woman; a married woman; a wife; -- as a title,equivalent to Mrs., Madam.
FRAUD
An intentional perversion of truth for the purpose of obtainingsome valuable thing or promise from another.
FRAUDFUL
Full of fraud, deceit, or treachery; trickish; treacherous;fraudulent; -- applied to persons or things. I. Taylor.-- Fraud"ful*ly, adv.
FRAUDLESS
Free from fraud.-- Fraud"less*ly, adv.-- Fraud"less*ness, n.
FRAUDULENTLY
In a fraudulent manner.
FRAUGHT
A freight; a cargo. [Obs.] Shak.
FRAUGHTAGE
Freight; loading; cargo. [Obs.] Shak.
FRAUGHTING
Constituting the freight or cargo. [Obs.] "The fraughting soulswithin her." Shak.
FRAULEIN
In Germany, a young lady; an unmarried woman; -- as a title,equivalent to Miss.
FRAUNHOFER LINES
The lines of the spectrun; especially and properly, the darklines of the solar spectrum, so called because first accuratelyobserved and interpreted by Fraunhofer, a German physicist.
FRAXIN
A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, andfound in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus) and along with esculin in thebark of the horse-chestnut. It shows a delicate fluorescence inalkaline solutions; -- called also paviin.
FRAXINUS
A genus of deciduous forest trees, found in the north temperatezone, and including the true ash trees.
FRAY
Affray; broil; contest; combat.Who began this bloody fray Shak.
FRAYING
The skin which a deer frays from his horns. B. Jonson.
FRAZZLE
To fray; to wear or pull into tatters or tag ends; to tatter; --used literally and figuratively. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.]
FREAK
To variegate; to checker; to streak. [R.]Freaked with many a mingled hue. Thomson.
FREAKING
Freakish. [Obs.] Pepys.
FREAKISH
Apt to change the mind suddenly; whimsical; capricious.It may be a question whether the wife or the woman was the morefreakish of the two. L'Estrange.Freakish when well, and fretful when she's sick. Pope.-- Freak"ish*ly, adv.-- Freak"ish*ness, n.
FRECK
To checker; to diversify. [R. & Poet.]The painted windows, frecking gloom with glow. Lowell.
FRECKLE
To spinkle or mark with freckle or small discolored spots; tospot.
FRECKLED
Marked with freckles; spotted. "The freckled trout." Dryden.The freckled cowslip, burnet, and green clover. Shak.
FRECKLEDNESS
The state of being freckled.
FRECKLY
Full of or marked with freckles; sprinkled with spots;freckled.
FRED
Peace; -- a word used in composition, especially in propernames; as, Alfred; Frederic.
FREDSTOLE
See Fridstol. Fuller.
FREE
Certain or honorable; the opposite of base; as, free service;free socage. Burrill.
FREE COINAGE
In the fullest sense, the conversion of bullion (of anyspecified metal) into legal-tender coins for any person who choosesto bring it to the mint; in a modified sense, such coinage when doneat a fixed charge proportionate to the cost of the operation.
FREE SILVER
The free coinage of silver; often, specif., the free coinage ofsilver at a fixed ratio with gold, as at the ratio of 16 to 1, whichratio for some time represented nearly or exactly the ratio of themarket values of gold and silver respectively.
FREE-DENIZEN
To make free. [R.]
FREE-HAND
Done by the hand, without support, or the guidance ofinstruments; as, free-hand drawing. See under Drawing.
FREE-HANDED
Open-handed; liberal.
FREE-HEARTED
Open; frank; unreserved; liberal; generous; as, free-heartedmirth.-- Free"-heart`ed*ly, adv.-- Free"-heart`ed*ness, n.
FREE-LIVER
One who gratifies his appetites without stint; one given toindulgence in eating and drinking.
FREE-LIVING
Unrestrained indulgence of the appetites.
FREE-LOVE
The doctrine or practice of consorting with the opposite sex,at pleasure, without marriage.
FREE-LOVER
One who believes in or practices free-love.
FREE-MARTIN
An imperfect female calf, twinborn with a male.
FREE-MILLING
Yielding free gold or silver; -- said of certain ores which canbe reduced by crushing and amalgamation, without roasting or otherchemical treatment. Raymond.
FREE-MINDED
Not perplexed; having a mind free from care. Bacon.
FREE-SOIL
Pertaining to, or advocating, the non-extension of slavery; --esp. applied to a party which was active during the period 1846-1856.[U.S.] -- Free"soil`er, n. [U.S.] -- Free"-soil`ism, n. [U.S.]
FREE-SPOKEN
Accustomed to speak without reserve. Bacon.-- Free"-spo`ken-ness, n.
FREE-SWIMMING
Swimming in the open sea; -- said of certain marine animals.
FREE-TONGUED
Speaking without reserve. Bp. Hall.
FREEBOOTER
One who plunders or pillages without the authority of nationalwarfare; a member of a predatory band; a pillager; a buccaneer; a searobber. Bacon.
FREEBOOTERY
The act, practice, or gains of a freebooter; freebooting.Booth.
FREEBOOTING
Robbery; plunder; a pillaging.
FREEBOOTY
Freebootery. [Obs.]
FREEBORN
Born free; not born in vasssalage; inheriting freedom.
FREEDMAN
A man who has been a slave, and has been set free.
FREEDSTOOL
See Fridstol.
FREEHOLD
An estate in real property, of inheritance (in fee simple orfee tail) or for life; or the tenure by which such estate is held.Kent. Burrill. To abate into a freehold. See under Abate.
FREEHOLDER
The possessor of a freehold.
FREELTE
Frailty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FREELY
In a free manner; without restraint or compulsion; abundantly;gratuitously.Of every tree of the garden thou mayst freely eat. Gen. ii. 16.Freely ye have received, freely give. Matt. x. 8.Freely they stood who stood, and fell who fell. Milton.Freely we serve Because we freely love. Milton.
FREEMASON
One of an ancient and secret association or fraternity, said tohave been at first composed of masons or builders in stone, but nowconsisting of persons who are united for social enjoyment and mutualassistance.
FREEMASONIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, the institutions or the practicesof freemasons; as, a freemasonic signal.
FREEMASONRY
The institutions or the practices of freemasons.
FREENESS
The state or quality of being free; freedom; liberty; openness;liberality; gratuitousness.
FREER
One who frees, or sets free.
FREESTONE
A stone composed of sand or grit; -- so called because it iseasily cut or wrought.
FREETHINKER
One who speculates or forms opinions independently of theauthority of others; esp., in the sphere or religion, one who formsopinions independently of the authority of revelation or of thechurch; an unbeliever; -- a term assumed by deists and skeptics inthe eighteenth century.Atheist is an old-fashioned word: I'm a freethinker, child. Addison.
FREETHINKING
Undue boldness of speculation; unbelief. Berkeley.-- a.
FREEWHEEL
A clutch fitted in the rear hub of a cycle, which engages therear sprocket with the rear wheel when the pedals are rotatedforwards, but permits the rear wheel to run on free from the rearsprocket when the pedals are stopped or rotated backwards.Freewheelcycles are usually fitted with hub brakes or rim brakes,operated by back pedaling.
FREEWILL
Of or pertaining to free will; voluntary; spontaneous; as, afreewill offering. Frewill Baptists. See under Baptist.
FREEZABLE
Capable of being frozen.
FREEZE
A frieze. [Obs.]
FREEZER
One who, or that which, cools or freezes, as a refrigerator, orthe tub and can used in the process of freezing ice cream.
FREEZING
Tending to freeze; for freezing; hence, cold or distant inmanner.-- Frrez"ing*ly, adv. Freezing machine. See Ice machine, under Ice.-- Freezing mixture, a mixture (of salt and snow or of chemicalsalts) for producing intense cold.-- Freezing point, that degree of a thermometer at which a fluidbegins to freeze; -- applied particularly to water, whose freezingpoint is at 32ยบ Fahr., and at 0ยบ Centigrade.
FREIESLEBENITE
A sulphide of antimony, lead, and silver, occuring inmonoclinic crystals.
FREIGHT
Employed in the transportation of freight; having to do withfreight; as, a freight car. Freight agent, a person employed by atransportation company to receive, forward, or deliver goods.-- Freight car. See under Car.-- Freight train, a railroad train made up of freight cars; --called in England goods train.
FREIGHTLESS
Destitute of freight.
FREIHERR
In Germany and Austria, a baron.
FRELTE
Frailty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FREMESCENT
Becoming murmurous, roaring. "Fremescent clangor." Carlyle. --Fre*mes"cence (#), n.
FREMITUS
Palpable vibration or thrill; as, the rhonchial fremitus.
FREN
A stranger. [Obs.] Spenser.
FRENCH
Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants. French bean(Bot.), the common kidney bean (Phaseolus vulgaris).-- French berry (Bot.), the berry of a species of buckthorn (Rhamnuscatharticus), which affords a saffron, green or purple pigment.-- French casement (Arch.) See French window, under Window.-- French chalk (Min.), a variety of granular talc; -- used fordrawing lines on cloth, etc. See under Chalk.-- French cowslip (Bot.) The Primula Auricula. See Bear's-ear.-- French fake (Naut.), a mode of coiling a rope by running itbackward and forward in parallel bends, so that it may run freely.-- French honeysuckle (Bot.) a plant of the genus Hedysarum (H.coronarium); -- called also garland honeysuckle.-- French horn, a metallic wind instrument, consisting of a longtube twisted into circular folds and gradually expanding from themouthpiece to the end at which the sound issues; -- called in Francecor de chasse.-- French leave, an informal, hasty, or secret departure; esp., theleaving a place without paying one's debts.-- French pie Etym: [French (here used in sense of "foreign") + piea magpie (in allusion to its black and white color)] (Zoรถl.), theEuropean great spotted woodpecker (Dryobstes major); -- called alsowood pie.-- French polish. (a) A preparation for the surface of woodwork,consisting of gums dissolved in alcohol, either shellac alone, orshellac with other gums added. (b) The glossy surface produced by theapplication of the above.-- French purple, a dyestuff obtained from lichens and used forcoloring woolen and silken fabrics, without the aid of mordants. Ure.-- French red rouge.-- French rice, amelcorn.-- French roof (Arch.), a modified form of mansard roof having anearly flat deck for the upper slope.-- French tub, a dyer's mixture of protochloride of tin and logwood;-- called also plum tub. Ure.-- French window. See under Window.
FRENCHIFY
To make French; to infect or imbue with the manners or tastesof the French; to Gallicize. Burke.
FRENCHISM
A French mode or characteristic; an idiom peculiar to theFrench language. Earle.
FRENCHMAN
A native or one of the people of France.
FRENETIC
Distracted; mad; frantic; phrenetic. Milton.
FRENETICAL
Frenetic; frantic; frenzied.-- Frenet"ic*al*ly, adv.
FRENUM
A cheek stripe of color.
FRENZICAL
Frantic. [Obs.] Orrery.
FRENZIED
Affected with frenzy; frantic; maddened.-- Fren"zied-ly, adv.The people frenzied by centuries of oppression. Buckle.Up starting with a frenzied look. Sir W Scott.
FRENZY
Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction;violent and temporary derangement of the mental faculties; madness;rage.All else is towering frenzy and distraction. Addison.The poet's eye in a fine frenzy rolling. Shak.
FREQUENTABLE
Accessible. [R.] Sidney.
FREQUENTAGE
The practice or habit of frequenting. [R.] Southey.
FREQUENTATION
The act or habit of frequenting or visiting often; resort.Chesterfield.
FREQUENTATIVE
Serving to express the frequent repetition of an action; as, afrequentative verb.-- n.
FREQUENTER
One who frequents; one who often visits, or resorts tocustomarily.
FREQUENTLY
At frequent or short intervals; many times; often; repeatedly;commonly.
FREQUENTNESS
The quality of being frequent.
FRERE
A friar. Chaucer.
FRESCADE
A cool walk; shady place. [R.] Maunder.
FRESCO
To paint in fresco, as walls.
FRESH
To refresh; to freshen. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
FRESH-NEW
Unpracticed. [Obs.] Shak.
FRESH-WATER
A lantern having a lamp surrounded by a hollow cylindricalFresnel lens.
FRESHEN
To relieve, as a rope, by change of place where friction wearsit; or to renew, as the material used to prevent chafing; as, tofreshen a hawse. Totten. To freshen ballast (Naut.), to shift Orrestore it.-- To freshen the hawse, to pay out a little more cable, so as tobring the chafe on another part.-- To freshen the way, to increase the speed of a vessel. Ham. Nav.Encyc.
FRESHLY
In a fresh manner; vigorously; newly, recently; brightly;briskly; coolly; as, freshly gathered; freshly painted; the windblows freshly.Looks he as freshly as he did Shak.
FRESHMAN
novice; one in the rudiments of knowledge; especially, astudent during his fist year in a college or university.He drank his glass and cracked his joke, And freshmen wondered as hespoke. Goldsmith.Freshman class, the lowest of the four classes in an Americancollege. [ U. S.]
FRESHMANSHIP
The state of being a freshman.
FRESHMENT
Refreshment. [Obs.]
FRESHNESS
The state of being fresh.The Scots had the advantage both for number and freshness of men.Hayward.And breathe the freshness of the open air. Dryden.Her cheeks their freshness lose and wonted grace. Granville.
FRESNEL LENS
See under Lens.
FRET
See 1st Frith.
FRETFUL
Disposed to fret; ill-humored; peevish; angry; in a state ofvexation; as, a fretful temper.-- Fret"ful-ly, adv.-- Fret"ful-ness, n.
FRETT
The worn side of the bank of a river. See 4th Fret, n., 4.
FRETTED
Interlaced one with another; -- said of charges and ordinaries.
FRETTEN
Rubbed; marked; as, pock-fretten, marked with the smallpox.[Obs.] Wright.
FRETTER
One who, or that which, frets.
FRETTY
Adorned with fretwork.
FRETUM
A strait, or arm of the sea.
FRETWORK
Work adorned with frets; ornamental openwork or work in relief,esp. when elaborate and minute in its parts. Heuce, any minute playof light andshade, dark and light, or the like.Banqueting on the turf in the fretwork of shade and sunshine.Macaulay.
FREYA
The daughter of Njรถrd, aud goddess of love and beauty; theScandinavian Venus; -- in Teutonic myths confounded with Frigga, butin Scandinavian, distinct. [Written also Frea, Fraying, and Ereyja.]
FRIABIIITY
The quality of being friable; friableness. Locke.
FRIABLE
[friabilis, fr. friare to rub, break, or crumble into smallpieces, cf. fricare to rub, E. fray. cf. F. friable.) Easilycrumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder. "Friable ground." Evelyn."Soft and friable texture." Paley.-- Fri'a-ble-ness, n.
FRIAR
A brother or member of any religious order, but especially ofone of the four mendicant orders, viz: (a) Minors, Gray Friars, orFranciscans. (b) Augustines. (c) Dominicans or Black Friars. (d)White Friars or Carmelites. See these names in the Vocabulary.
FRIARLY
Like a friar; inexperienced. Bacon.
FRIARY
Like a friar; pertaining to friars or to a convent. [Obs.]Camden.
FRIATION
The act of breaking up or pulverizing.
FRIBBLE
Frivolous; trifling; sily.
FRIBBLER
A trifler; a fribble.
FRIBBLING
Frivolous; trining; toolishly captious.
FRICACE
A ragout or fricassee of veal; a fancy dish of veal or of bonedturkey, served as an entrรฉe, -- called also fricandel. A. J. Cooley.
FRICASSEE
A dish made of fowls, veal, or other meat of small animals cutinto pieces, and stewed in a gravy.
FRICATION
Friction. [Obs.] Bacon.
FRICATIVE
Produced by the friction or rustling of the breath, intonatedor unintonated, through a narrow opening between two of the mouthorgans; uttered through a close approach, but not with a completeclosure, of the organs of articulation, and hence capable of beingcontinued or prolonged; -- said of certain consonantal sounds, as f,v, s, z, etc.-- n.
FRICATRICE
A lewd woman; a harlot. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
FRICKLE
A bushel basket. [Obs.]
FRICTION
The resistance which a body meets with from the surface onwhich it moves. It may be resistance to sliding motion, or to rollingmotion.
FRICTIONAL
Relating to friction; moved by friction; produced by friction;as, frictional electricity. Frictional gearing, wheels which transmitmotion by surface friction instead of teeth. The faces are sometimesmade more or less V-shaped to increase or decrease friction, asrequired.
FRICTIONLESS
Having no friction.
FRIDAY
The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and precedingSaturday.
FRIDGE
To rub; to fray. [Obs.] Sterne.
FRIED
imp. & p. p. of Fry.
FRIEND
To act as the friend of; to favor; to countenance; to befriend.[Obs.]Fortune friends the bold. Spenser.
FRIENDING
Friendliness. [Obs.] Shak.
FRIENDLESS
Destitute of friends; forsaken.-- Friend"less*ness, n.
FRIENDLILY
In a friendly manner. Pope.
FRIENDLINESS
The condition or quality of being friendly. Sir P. Sidney.
FRIENDLY
In the manner of friends; amicably; like friends. [Obs.] Shak.In whom all graces that can perfect beauty Are friendly met. Beau. &Fl.
FRIER
One who fries.
FRIESE
Same as Friesic, n.
FRIESIC
Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province in the northern partof the Netherlands.
FRIESISH
Friesic. [R.]
FRIEZE
A kind of coarse woolen cloth or stuff with a shaggy or tufted(friezed) nap on one side. "Robes of frieze." Goldsmith.
FRIEZED
Gathered, or having the map gathered, into little tufts, knots,or protuberances. Cf. Frieze, v. t., and Friz, v. t.,
FRIEZER
One who, or that which, friezes or frizzes.
FRIGATE-BUILT
Built like a frigate with a raised quarter-deck and forecastle.
FRIGATOON
A Venetian vessel, with a square stern, having only a mainmast,jigger mast, and bowsprit; also a sloop of war ship-rigged.
FRIGEFACTION
The act of making cold. [Obs.]
FRIGEFACTIVE
Cooling. [Obs.] Boyle.
FRIGERATE
To make cool. [Obs.] Blount.
FRIGHT
To alarm suddenly; to shock by causing sudden fear; to terrify;to scare.Nor exile or danger can fright a brave spirit. Dryden.
FRIGHTEN
To disturb with fear; to throw into a state of alarm or fright;to affright; to terrify.More frightened than hurt. Old Proverb.
FRIGHTFULLY
In a frightful manner; to a frightful dagree.
FRIGHTFULNESS
The quality of being frightful.
FRIGHTLESS
Free from fright; fearless. [Obs.]
FRIGHTMENT
Fear; terror. [Obs.]
FRIGIDARIUM
The cooling room of the Roman thermรฆ, furnished with a coldbath.
FRIGIDLY
In a frigid manner; coldly; dully; without affection.
FRIGIDNESS
The state of being frigid; want of heat, vigor, or affection;coldness; dullness.
FRILL
To wrinkle; -- said of the gelatin film.
FRILLED
Furnished with a frill or frills. Frilled lizard (Zoรถl.), alarge Australian lizard (Chlamydosaurus Kingii) about three feetlong, which has a large, erectile frill on each side of the neck.
FRIM
Flourishing; thriving; fresh; in good case; vigorous. [Obs.]"Frim pastures." Drayton.
FRIMAIRE
The third month of the French republican calendar. It commencedNovember 21, and ended December 20., See Vendรฉmiaire.
FRINGE
One of a number of light or dark bands, produced by theinterference of light; a diffraction band; -- called alsointerference fringe.
FRINGE TREE
A small oleaceous tree (Chionanthus virginica), of the southernUnited States, having clusters of white flowers with slender petals.It is often cultivated.
FRINGED
Furnished with a fringe. Fringed lear (Bot.), a leaf edged withsoft parallel hairs.
FRINGELESS
Having no fringe.
FRINGENT
Encircling like a fringe; bordering. [R.] "The fringent air."Emerson.
FRINGILLA
A genus of birds, with a short, conical, pointed bill. Itformerly included all the sparrows and finches, but is now restrictedto certain European finches, like the chaffinch and brambling.
FRINGILLACEOUS
Fringilline.
FRINGILLINE
Pertaining to the family Fringillidรฆ; characteristic offinches; sparrowlike.
FRINGY
Aborned with fringes. Shak.
FRIPPER
One who deals in frippery or in old clothes. [Obs.] Bacon.
FRIPPERER
A fripper. [Obs.] Johnson.
FRIPPERY
Trifling; contemptible.
FRISEUR
A hairdresser.
FRISIAN
Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province of the Netherlands;Friesic.
FRISK
Lively; brisk; frolicsome; frisky. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
FRISKAL
A leap or caper. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
FRISKER
One who frisks; one who leaps of dances in gayety; a wanton; aninconstant or unsettled person. Camden.
FRISKET
The light frame which holds the sheet of paper to the tympan inprinting.
FRISKFUL
Brisk; lively; frolicsome.
FRISKILY
In a frisky manner.
FRISKINESS
State or quality of being frisky.
FRISKY
Inclined to frisk; frolicsome; gay.He is too frisky for an old man. Jeffrey.
FRISLET
[Fraise a kind of defense; also Friz.) A kind of small ruffle.Halliwell.
FRIST
To sell upon credit, as goods. [R.] Crabb.
FRISURE
The dressing of the hair by crisping or curling. Smollett.
FRIT
The material of which glass is made, after having been calcinedor partly fused in a furnace, but before vitrification. It is acomposition of silex and alkali, occasionally with other ingredients.Ure.
FRITFLY
A small dipterous fly of the genus Oscinis, esp. O. vastator,injurious to grain in Europe, and O. Trifole, injurious to clover inAmerica.
FRITH
A narrow arm of the sea; an estuary; the opening of a riverinto the sea; as, the Frith of Forth.
FRITHY
Woody. [Obs.] Skelton.
FRITILLARIA
A genus of liliaceous plants, of which the crown-imperial(Fritillaria imperialis) is one species, and the Guinea-hen flower(F. Meleagris) another. See Crown-imperial.
FRITILLARY
A plant with checkered petals, of the genus Fritillaria: theGuinea-hen flower. See Fritillaria.
FRITINANCY
A chirping or creaking, as of a cricket. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FRITTING
The formation of frit or slag by heat with but incipientfusion.
FRIVOL
To act frivolously; to trifle. Kipling. -- Friv"ol*er (#),Friv"ol*ler, n. [All Colloq.]
FRIVOLISM
Frivolity. [R.] Pristley.
FRIVOLITY
The condition or quality of being frivolous; also, acts orhabits of trifling; unbecoming levity of disposition.
FRIZ
To soften and make of even thickness by rubbing, as with pumicestone or a blunt instrument. Frizzing machine. (a) (Fabrics) Amachine for frizzing the surface of cloth. (b) (Wood Working) A benchwith a revolving cutter head slightly protruding above its surface,for dressing boards.
FRIZE
See 1st Frieze.
FRIZEL
A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throwsparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock. Knight.
FRIZETTE
A curl of hair or silk; a pad of frizzed hair or silk worn bywomen under the hair to stuff it out.
FRIZZ
See Friz, v. t. & n.
FRIZZLE
To curl or crisp, as hair; to friz; to crinkle. Gay. To frizzleup, to crinkle or crisp excessively.
FRIZZLER
One who frizzles.
FRO
From; away; back or backward; -- now used only in oppositiontothe word to, in the phrase to and fro, that is, to and from. See Toand fro under To. Millon.
FROCKED
Clothed in a frock.
FROCKLESS
Destitute of a frock.
FROE
A dirty woman; a slattern; a frow. [Obs.] "Raging franticfroes." Draylon.
FROEBELIAN
Pertaining to, or derived from, Friedrich Froebel, or thekindergarten system of education, which he organized. -- n.
FROG
1. (Zoรถl.) An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and relatedgenera, of many species. Frogs swim rapidly, and take long leaps onland. Many of the species utter loud notes in the springtime.
FROG-EYED
Spotted with whitish specks due to a disease, or producedartificially by spraying; -- said of tobacco used for cigar wrappers.
FROGGED
Provided or ornamented with frogs; as, a frogged coat. SeeFrog, n., 4. Ld. Lytton.
FROGGY
Abounding in frogs. Sherwood.
FROGMOUTH
One of several species of Asiatic and East Indian birds of thegenus Batrachostomus (family Podargidรฆ); -- so called from their verybroad, flat bills.
FROGS-BIT
Frogbit.
FROGSHELL
One of numerous species of marine gastropod shells, belongingto Ranella and allied genera.
FROISE
A kind of pancake. See 1st Fraise. [Written also fraise.]
FROLIC
Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full ofpranks; frolicsome; gay; merry.The frolic wind that breathes the spring. Milton.The gay, the frolic, and the loud. Waller.
FROLICFUL
Frolicsome. [R.]
FROLICKY
Frolicsome. [Obs.] Richardson.
FROLICLY
In a frolicsome manner; with mirth and gayety. [Obs.] Beau. &Fl.
FROLICSOME
Full of gayety and mirth; given to pranks; sportive.Old England, who takes a frolicsome brain fever once every two orthree years, for the benefit of her doctors. Sir W. Scott.-- Frol"ic*some*ly, adv.-- Frol"ic*some*ness, n.
FROM
Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to;leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used wheneverdeparture, setting out, commencement of action, being, state,occurrence, etc., or procedure, emanation, absence, separation, etc.,are to be expressed. It is construed with, and indicates, the pointof space or time at which the action, state, etc., are regarded assetting out or beginning; also, less frequently, the source, thecause, the occasion, out of which anything proceeds; -- thearitithesis and correlative of to; as, it, is one hundred miles fromBoston to Springfield; he took his sword from his side; lightproceeds from the sun; separate the coarse wool from the fine; menhave all sprung from Adam, and often go from good to bad, and frombad to worse; the merit of an action depends on the principle fromwhich it proceeds; men judge of facts from personal knowledge, orfrom testimony.Experience from the time past to the time present. Bacon.The song began from Jove. Drpden.From high Mรฆonia's rocky shores I came. Addison.If the wind blow any way from shore. Shak.
FROND
The organ formed by the combination or union into one body ofstem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; as, the frond ofa fern or of a lichen or seaweed; also, the peculiar leaf of a palmtree.
FRONDATION
The act of stripping, as trees, of leaves or branches; a kindof pruning. Evelyn.
FRONDE
A political party in France, during the minority of Louis XIV.,who opposed the government, and made war upon the court party.
FRONDED
Furnished with fronds. "Fronded palms." Whittier.
FRONDENT
Covered with leaves; leafy; as, a frondent tree. [R.]
FRONDESCE
To unfold leaves, as plants.
FRONDEUR
A member of the Fronde.
FRONDIFEROUS
Producing fronds.
FRONDLET
A very small frond, or distinct portion of a compound frond.
FRONDOUS
Frondose. [R.]
FRONS
The forehead; the part of the cranium between the orbits andthe vertex.
FRONT
Of or relating to the front or forward part; having a positionin front; foremost; as, a front view.
FRONTAGE
The front part of an edifice or lot; extent of front.
FRONTAL
Belonging to the front part; being in front; esp. (Anat.),
FRONTED
Formed with a front; drawn up in line. "Fronted brigades."Milton.
FRONTIER
An outwork. [Obs.]Palisadoes, frontiers, parapets. Shak.
FRONTIERED
Placed on the frontiers. [R.]
FRONTIERSMAN
A man living on the frontier.
FRONTINGLY
In a fronting or facing position; opposingly.
FRONTINIAC
See Frontignac.
FRONTISPIECE
The part which first meets the eye; as:(a) (Arch.) The principal front of a building. [Obs. or R.](b) An ornamental figure or illustration fronting the first page, ortitlepage, of a book; formerly, the titlepage itself.
FRONTLESS
Without face or front; shameless; not diffident; impudent.[Obs.] "Frontless vice." Dryden. "Frontless flattery." Pope.
FRONTLESSLY
Shamelessly; impudently. [Obs.]
FRONTLET
The margin of the head, behind the bill of birds, often bearingrigid bristles.
FRONTO-
A combining form signifying relating to the forehead or thefrontal bone; as, fronto-parietal, relating to the frontal and theparietal bones; fronto-nasal, etc.
FRONTON
Same as Frontal, 2.
FROPPISH
Peevish; froward. [Obs.] Clarendon.
FRORE
Frostily. [Obs.]The parching air Burns frore, and cold performs the effect of fire.Milton.
FRORN
Frozen. [Obs.]Well nigh frorn I feel. Spenser.
FROST SIGNAL
A signal consisting of a white flag with a black center, usedby the United States Weather Bureau to indicate that a local frost isexpected. It is used only in Florida and along the coasts of thePacific and the Gulf Mexico.
FROST-BITTEN
Nipped, withered, or injured, by frost or freezing.
FROSTBIRD
The golden plover.
FROSTBITE
The freezing, or effect of a freezing, of some part of thebody, as the ears or nose. Kane.
FROSTBOW
A white arc or circle in the sky attending frosty weather andformed by reflection of sunlight from ice crystals floating in theair; the parhelic circle whose center is at the zenith.
FROSTED
Covered with hoarfrost or anything resembling hoarfrost;ornamented with frosting; also, frost-bitten; as, a frosted cake;frosted glass.Frosted work is introduced as a foil or contrast to burnished work.Knight.
FROSTILY
In a frosty manner.
FROSTINESS
State or quality of being frosty.
FROSTLESS
Free from frost; as, a frostless winter.
FROSTWEED
An American species of rockrose (Helianthemum Canadense),sometimes used in medicine as an astringent or aromatic tonic.
FROSTWORK
The figurework, often fantastic and delicate, which moisturesometimes forms in freezing, as upon a window pane or a flagstone.
FROSTWORT
Same as Frostweed.
FROTE
To rub or wear by rubbing; to chafe. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
FROTERER
One who frotes; one who rubs or chafes. [Obs.] Marston.
FROTH
To throw up or out spume, foam, or bubbles; to foam; as beerfroths; a horse froths.
FROTHILY
In a frothy manner.
FROTHINESS
State or quality of being frothy.
FROTHING
Exaggerated declamation; rant.
FROTHLESS
Free from froth.
FROUFROU
A rustling, esp. the rustling of a woman's dress.
FROUNCE
To gather into or adorn with plaits, as a dress; to formwrinkles in or upon; to curl or frizzle, as the hair.Not tricked and frounced, as she was wont. Milton.
FROUNCELESS
Without frounces. Rom. of R.
FROUZY
Fetid, musty; rank; disordered and offensive to the smell orsight; slovenly; dingy. See Frowzy. "Petticoats in frouzy heaps."Swift.
FROW
A cleaving tool with handle at right angles to the blade, forsplitting cask staves and shingles from the block; a frower.
FROWARD
Not willing to yield or compIy with what is required or isreasonable; perverse; disobedient; peevish; as, a froward child.A froward man soweth strife. Prov. xvi. 28.A froward retention of custom is as turbulent a thing as innovation.Bacon.
FROWER
A tool. See 2d Frow. Tusser.
FROWEY
Working smoothly, or without splitting; -- said of timber.
FROWN
To repress or repel by expressing displeasure or disapproval;to rebuke with a look; as, frown the impudent fellow into silence.
FROWNINGLY
In a frowning manner.
FROWNY
Frowning; scowling. [Obs.]Her frowny mother's ragged shoulder. Sir F. Palgrave.
FROWY
Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter. "Frowy feed." Spenser
FROWZY
Slovenly; unkempt; untidy; frouzy. "With head all frowzy."Spenser.The frowzy soldiers' wives hanging out clothes. W. D. Howells.
FROZE
imp. of Freeze.
FROZENNESS
A state of being frozen.
FRUBISH
To rub up: to furbish. [Obs.] Beau. c& Et.
FRUCTED
Bearing fruit; -- said of a tree or plant so represented uponan escutcheon. Cussans.
FRUCTESCENCE
The maturing or ripening of fruit. [R.] Martyn.
FRUCTICULOSE
Fruitful; full of fruit.
FRUCTIDOR
The twelfth month of the French republican calendar; --commencing August 18, and ending September 16. See Vendรฉmiaire.
FRUCTIFERUOS
Bearing or producing fruit. Boyle.
FRUCTIFY
To bear fruit. "Causeth the earth to fructify." Beveridge.
FRUCTOSE
Fruit sugar; levulose. [R.]
FRUCTUARY
One who enjoys the profits, income, or increase of anything.Kings are not proprietors nor fructuaries. Prynne.
FRUCTUATION
Produce; fruit, [R.]
FRUCTUOUS
Fruitful; productive; profitable. [Obs.]Nothing fructuous or profitable. Chaucer.-- Fruc"tu*ous*ly, adv.-- Fruc"tu*ous*ness, n. [Obs.]
FRUCTURE
Use; fruition; enjoyment. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
FRUE VANNER
A moving, inclined, endless apron on which ore is concentratedby a current of water; a kind of buddle.
FRUGALLY
Thriftily; prudently.
FRUGALNESS
, n. Quality of being frugal; frugality.
FRUGIFEROUS
Producing fruit; fruitful; fructiferous. Dr. H. More.
FRUGIVORA
The fruit bate; a group of the Cheiroptera, comprising the batswhich live on fruits. See Eruit bat, under Fruit.
FRUGIVOROUS
Feeding on fruit, as birds and other animals. Pennant.
FRUIT
The pulpy, edible seed vessels of certain plants, especiallythose grown on branches above ground, as apples, oranges, grapes,melons, berries, etc. See 3.
FRUITER
A ship for carrying fruit.
FRUITERER
One who deals in fruit; a seller of fruits.
FRUITERESS
A woman who sells fruit.
FRUITESTERE
A fruiteress. [Obs.]
FRUITFUL
Full of fruit; producing fruit abundantly; bearing results;prolific; fertile; liberal; bountiful; as, a fruitful tree, orseason, or soil; a fruitful wife.-- Fruit"ful*ly, adv.-- Fruit"ful*ness, n.Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. Gen. i. 28.[Nature] By disburdening grows More fruitful. Milton.The great fruitfulness of the poet's fancy. Addison.
FRUITING
Pertaining to, or producing, fruit.
FRUITION
Use or possession of anything, especially such as isaccompanied with pleasure or satisfaction; pleasure derived frompossession or use. "Capacity of fruition." Rogers. "Godlikefruition." Milton.Where I may have fruition of her love. Shak.
FRUITIVE
Eujoying; possessing. [Obs.] Boyle.
FRUITY
Having the odor, taste, or appearance of fruit; also, fruitful.Dickens.
FRUMENTACEOUS
Made of, or resembling, wheat or other grain.
FRUMENTARIOUS
Of or pertaining to wheat or grain. [R.] Coles.
FRUMENTATION
A largess of grain bestowed upon the people, to quiet them whenuneasy.
FRUMENTY
Food made of hulled wheat boiled in milk, with sugar, plums,etc. [Written also furmenty and furmity.] Halliwell.
FRUMP
To insult; to flout; to mock; to snub. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
FRUMPER
A mocker. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
FRUSH
To batter; to break in pieces. [Obs.]I like thine armor well; I'll frush it and unlock the rivets all.Shak.
FRUSTRABLE
Capable of beeing frustrated or defeated.
FRUSTRANEOUS
Vain; useless; unprofitable. [Obs.] South.
FRUSTRATE
Vain; ineffectual; useless; unprofitable; null; voil; nugatory;of no effect. "Our frustrate search." Shak.
FRUSTRATELY
In vain. [Obs.] Vicars.
FRUSTRATION
The act of frustrating; disappointment; defeat; as, thefrustration of one's designs
FRUSTRATIVE
Tending to defeat; fallacious. [Obs.] Ainsworth.
FRUSTRATORY
Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal. [Obs.]Ayliffe.
FRUSTULE
The siliceous shell of a diatom. It is composed of two valves,one overlapping the other, like a pill box and its cover.
FRUSTULENT
Abounding in fragments. [R.]
FRUSTUM
The part of a solid next the base, formed by cutting off the,top; or the part of any solid, as of a cone, pyramid, etc., betweentwo planes, which may be either parallel or inclined to each other.
FRUTESCENT
Somewhat shrubby in character; imperfectly shrubby, as theAmerican species of Wistaria.
FRUTEX
A plant having a woody, durable stem, but less than a tree; ashrub.
FRUTICANT
Full of shoots. [Obs.] Evelyn.
FRUTICOSE
Pertaining to a shrub or shrubs; branching like a shrub;shrubby; shrublike; as, a fruticose stem. Gray.
FRUTICOUS
Fruticose. [R.]
FRUTICULOSE
Like, or pertaining to, a small shrub. Gray.
FRY
To cook in a pan or on a griddle (esp. with the use of fat,butter, or olive oil) by heating over a fire; to cook in boiling lardor fat; as, to fry fish; to fry doughnuts.
FRYING
The process denoted by the verb fry. Frying pan, an iron panwith a long handle, used for frying meat. vegetables, etc.
FU
A department in China comprising several hsein; also, the chiefcity of a department; -- often forming the last part of a name; as,Paoting-fu.
FUAGE
Same as Fumage.
FUAR
Same as Feuar.
FUB
To put off by trickery; to cheat. [Obs.]I have been fubbed off, and fubbed off, and fabbed off, from this dayto that day. Shak.
FUBBERY
Cheating; deception. Marston.
FUCHS
A student of the first year.
FUCHSIA
A genus of flowering plants having elegant drooping flowers,with four sepals, four petals, eight stamens, and a single pistil.They are natives of Mexico and South America. Double-floweredvarieties are now common in cultivation.
FUCHSINE
Aniline red; an artificial coal-tar dyestuff, of a metallicgreen color superficially, resembling cantharides, but when dissolvedforming a brilliant dark red. It consists of a hydrochloride oracetate of rosaniline. See Rosaniline.
FUCIVOROUS
Eating fucus or other seaweeds.
FUCOID
A plant, whether recent or fossil, which resembles a seaweed.See Fucoid, a.
FUCOIDAL
Fucoid.
FUCUS
A genus of tough, leathery seaweeds, usually of a dull brownishgreen color; rockweed.
FUCUSOL
An oily liquid, resembling, and possibly identical with,furfurol, and obtained from fucus, and other seaweeds.
FUDDER
See Fodder, a weight.
FUDDLE
To make foolish by drink; to cause to become intoxicated.[Colloq.]I am too fuddled to take care to observe your orders. Steele.
FUDDLER
A drunkard. [Colloq.] Baxter.
FUDGE
A made-up story; stuff; nonsense; humbug; -- often anexclamation of contempt.
FUDGE WHEEL
A tool for ornamenting the edge of a sole.
FUEGIAN
Of or pertaining to Terra del Fuego.-- n.
FUELER
One who, or that which, supplies fuel. [R.] [Written alsofueller.] Donne.
FUFF
To puff. [Prov. Eng. A Local, U. S.] Halliwel.
FUFFY
Light; puffy. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.]
FUGA
A fugue.
FUGACIOUS
Fleeting; lasting but a short time; -- applied particularly toorgans or parts which are short-lived as compared with the life ofthe individual.
FUGACIOUSNESS
Fugacity. [Obs.]
FUGACY
Banishment. [Obs.] Milton.
FUGATO
in the gugue style, but not strictly like a fugue.-- n.
FUGH
An exclamation of disgust; foh; faugh. Dryden.
FUGHETTA
a short, condensed fugue. Grove.
FUGITIVELY
In a fugitive manner.
FUGITIVENESS
The quality or condition of being fugitive; evanescence;volatility; fugacity; instability.
FUGLE
To maneuver; to move hither and thither. [Colloq.]Wooden arms with elbow joints jerking and fugling in the air.Carlyle.
FUGLEMAN
A soldier especially expert and well drilled, who takes hisplace in front of a military company, as a guide for the others intheir exercises; a file leader. He originally stood in front of theright wing. [Written also flugelman.]
FUGUE
A polyphonic composition, developed from a given theme orthemes, according to strict contrapuntal rules. The theme is firstgiven out by one voice or part, and then, while that pursues its way,it is repeated by another at the interval of a fifth or fourth, andso on, until all the parts have answered one by one, continuing theirseveral melodies and interweaving them in one complex progressivewhole, in which the theme is often lost and reappears.All parts of the scheme are eternally chasing each other, like theparts of a fugue. Jer. Taylor.
FUGUIST
A musician who composes or performs fugues. Busby.
FULBE
Same as Fulahs.
FULCIBLE
Capable of being propped up. [Obs.] Cockeram.
FULCIMENT
A prop; a fulcrum. [Obs.] Bp. Wilkins.
FULCRA
See Fulcrum.
FULCRATE
Propped; supported by accessory organs. [R.] Gray.
FULCRUM
That by which a lever is sustained, or about which it turns inlifting or moving a body.
FULFILLER
One who fulfills. South.
FULGENCY
Brightness; splendor; glitter; effulgence. Bailey.
FULGENT
Exquisitely bright; shining; dazzling; effulgent.Other Thracians . . . fulgent morions wore. Glower.
FULGENTLY
Dazzlingly; glitteringly.
FULGID
Shining; glittering; dazzling. [R.] Pope.
FULGIDITY
Splendor; resplendence; effulgence. [R.] Bailey.
FULGOR
Dazzling brightness; splendor. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
FULGURANT
Lightening. [R.] Dr. H. More.
FULGURATA
A spectro-electric tube in which the decomposition of a liquidby the passage of an electric spark is observed. Knight.
FULGURATE
To flash as lightning. [R.]
FULGURATING
Resembling lightning; -- used to describe intense lancinatingpainsaccompanying locomotor ataxy.
FULGURATION
The sudden brightening of a fused globule of gold or silver,when the last film of the oxide of lead or copper leaves its surface;-- also called blick.A phenomenon called, by the old chemists, fulguration. Ure.
FULGURITE
A vitrified sand tube produced by the striking of lightning onsand; a lightning tube; also, the portion of rock surface fused by alightning discharge.
FULGURY
Lightning. [Obs.]
FULHAM
A false die. [Cant] [Written also fullam.] Shak.
FULIGINOSITY
The condition or quality of being fuliginous; sootiness; matterdeposited by smoke. [R.]
FULIGINOUSLY
In a smoky manner.
FULIMART
Same as Foumart.
FULL
Complete measure; utmost extent; the highest state or degree.The swan's-down feather, That stands upon the swell at full of tide.Shak.Full of the moon, the time of full moon.
FULL HOUSE
A hand containing three of a kind and a pair, as three kingsand two tens. It ranks above a flush and below four of a kind.
FULL-BLOOMED
Like a perfect blossom. "Full-bloomed lips." Crashaw.
FULL-BOTTOMED
Of great capacity below the water line.
FULL-BUTT
With direct and violentop position; with sudden collision.[Colloq.] L'Estrange.
FULL-DRIVE
With full speed. [Colloq.]
FULL-FORMED
Full in form or shape; rounded out with flesh.The full-formed maids of Afric. Thomson.
FULL-GROWN
Having reached the limits of growth; mature. "Full-grownwings." Lowell.
FULL-HEARTED
Full of courage or confidence. Shak.
FULL-HOT
Very fiery. Shak.
FULL-MANNED
Completely furnished wiith men, as a ship.
FULL-ORBED
Having the orb or disk complete or fully illuminated; like thefull moon.
FULL-SAILED
Having all its sails set,; hence, without restriction orreservation. Massinger.
FULLAGE
The money or price paid for fulling or cleansing cloth.Johnson.
FULLAM
A false die. See Fulham.
FULLER
One whose occupation is to full cloth. Fuller's earth, avariety of clay, used in scouring and cleansing cloth, to imbibegrease.-- Fuller's herb (Bot.), the soapwort (Saponaria officinalis),formerly used to remove stains from cloth.-- Fuller's thistle or weed (Bot.), the teasel (Dipsacus fullonum)whose burs are used by fullers in dressing cloth. See Teasel.
FULLERY
The place or the works where the fulling of cloth is carriedon.
FULLING
The process of cleansing, shrinking, and thickening cloth bymoisture, heat, and pressure. Fulling mill, a mill for fulling clothas by means of pesties or stampers, which alternately fall into andrise from troughs where the cloth is placed with hot water andfuller's earth, or other cleansing materials.
FULLMART
See Foumart. B. Jonson.
FULLNESS
The state of being full, or of abounding; abundance;completeness. [Written also fulness.]"In thy presence is fullness of joy." Ps. xvi. 11.
FULLONICAL
Pertaining to a fuller of cloth. [Obs.] Blount.
FULLY
In a full manner or degree; completely; entirely; without lackor defect; adequately; satisfactorily; as, to be fully persuaded ofthe truth of a proposition. Fully committed (Law), committed toprison for trial, in distinction from being detained for examination.
FULMAR
One of several species of sea birds, of the familyprocellariidรฆ, allied to the albatrosses and petrels. Among the well-known species are the arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis) (called alsofulmar petrel, malduck, and mollemock), and the giant fulmar(Ossifraga gigantea).
FULMINANT
Thundering; fulminating. [R.] Bailey.
FULMINATORY
Thundering; striking terror. Cotgrave.
FULMINE
To thunder. [Obs.] Spenser. Milton.
FULMINEOUS
Of, or concerning thunder.
FULMINIC
Pertaining to fulmination; detonating; specifically (Chem.),pertaining to, derived from, or denoting, an acid, so called; as,fulminic acid. Fulminic acid (Chem.), a complex acid, H2C2N2O2,isomeric with cyanic and cyanuric acids, and not known in the freestate, but forming a large class of highly explosive salts, thefulminates. Of these, mercuric fulminate, the most common, is used,mixed with niter, to fill percussion caps, charge cartridges, etc.-- Fulminic acid is made by the action of nitric acid on alcohol.
FULMINURIC
Pertaining to fulminic and cyanuric acids, and designating anacid so called. Fulminuric acid (Chem.), a white, crystalline,explosive subatance, H3C3N3O3, forming well known salts, and obtainedfrom the fulnunates. It is isomeric with cyanuric acid, and hence isalso called isocyanuric acid.
FULNESS
See Fullness.
FULSAMIC
Fulsome. [Obs.]
FULVID
Fulvous. [R.] Dr. H. More.
FULVOUS
Tawny; dull yellow, with a mixture of gray and brown. Lindley.
FUM
To play upon a fiddle. [Obs.]Follow me, and fum as you go. B. Jonson.
FUMACIOUS
Smoky; hence, fond of smoking; addicted to smoking tobacco.
FUMAGE
Hearth money.Fumage, or fuage, vulgarly called smoke farthings. Blackstone.
FUMARATE
A salt of fumaric acid.
FUMARIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, fumitory (Fumaria officinalis).Fumaric acid (Chem.), a widely occurring organic acid, exttractedfrom fumitory as a white crystallline substance, C2H2(CO2H)2, andproduced artificially in many ways, as by the distillation of malicacid; boletic acid. It is found also in the lichen, Iceland moss, andhence was also called lichenic acid.
FUMARINE
An alkaloid extracted from fumitory, as a white crystallinesubstance.
FUMAROLE
A hole or spot in a volcanic or other region, from which fumesissue.
FUMATORIUM
An air-tight compartment in which vapor may be generated todestroy germs or insects; esp., the apparatus used to destroy SanJosรฉ scale on nursery stock, with hydrocyanic acid vapor.
FUMATORY
See Fumitory. [Obs.]
FUMBLE
To handle or manage awkwardly; to crowd or tumble together.Shak.
FUMBLER
One who fumbles.
FUMBLINGLY
In the manner of one who fumbles.
FUMED OAK
Oak given a weathered appearance by exposure in an air-tightcompartment to fumes of ammonia from uncorked cans, being first givena coat of filler.
FUMELESS
Free from fumes.
FUMERELL
See Femerell.
FUMET
The dung of deer. B. Jonson.
FUMETERE
Fumitory. [Obs.]
FUMID
Smoky; vaporous. Sir T. Broune.
FUMIFEROUS
Producing smoke.
FUMIFUGIST
One who, or that which, drives away smoke or fumes.
FUMIFY
To subject to the action of smoke. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FUMIGANT
Fuming. [R.]
FUMIGATOR
One who, or that which, fumigates; an apparattus forfumigating.
FUMIGATORY
Having the quality of purifying by smoke. [R.]
FUMILY
Smokily; with fume.
FUMING
Producing fumes, or vapors. Cadet's fuming liquid (Chem.),alkarsin.-- Fuming liquor of Libsvius (Old Chem.), stannic chloride; thechloride of tin, SnCl4, forming a colorless, mobile liquid whichfumes in the air. Mixed with water it solidifies to the so-calledbutter of tin.-- Fuming sulphuric acid. (Chem.) Same as Disulphuric acid, uderDisulphuric.
FUMINGLY
In a fuming manner; angrily. "They answer fumingly." Hooker.
FUMISH
Smoky; hot; choleric.
FUMISHNESS
Choler; fretfulness; passion.
FUMITER
Fumitory. [Obs.]
FUMITORY
The common uame of several species of the genus Fumaria, annualherbs of the Old World, with finely dissected leaves and smallflowers in dense racemes or spikes. F. officinalis is a commonspecies, and was formerly used as an antiscorbutic. Climbing fumitory(Bot.), the Alleghany vine (Adlumia cirrhosa); a biennial climbingplant with elegant feathery leaves and large clusters of pretty whiteor pinkish flowers looking like grains of rice.
FUMMEL
A hinny.
FUMOSITY
The fumes of drink. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FUMY
Producing fumes; fumous. "Drowned in fumy wine." H. Brooke.
FUN
Sport; merriment; frolicsome amusement. "Oddity, frolic, andfun." Goldsmith. To make fan of, to hold up to, or turn into,ridicule.
FUNAMBULATE
To walk or to dance on a rope.
FUNAMBULATION
Ropedancing.
FUNAMBULIST
A ropewalker or ropedancer.
FUNCTION
The appropriate action of any special organ or part of ananimal or vegetable organism; as, the function of the heart or thelimbs; the function of leaves, sap, roots, etc.; life is the sum ofthe functions of the various organs and parts of the body.
FUNCTIONAL
Pertaining to the function of an organ or part, or to thefunctions in general. Functional disease (Med.), a disease of whichthe symptoms cannot be referred to any appreciable lesion or changeof structure; the derangement of an organ arising from a cause, oftenunknown, external to itself opposed to organic disease, in which theorgan itself is affected.
FUNCTIONALIZE
To assign to some function or office. [R.]
FUNCTIONALLY
In a functional manner; as regards normal or appropriateactivity.The organ is said to be functionally disordered. Lawrence.
FUNCTIONARY
One charged with the performance of a function or office; as, apublic functionary; secular functionaries.
FUNCTIONLESS
Destitute of function, or of an appropriate organ. Darwin.
FUND
The stock of a national debt; public securities; evidences(stocks or bonds) of money lent to government, for which interest ispaid at prescribed intervals; -- called also public funds.
FUNDABLE
Capable of being funded, or converted into a fund; convertibleinto bonds.
FUNDAMENTAL
Pertaining to the foundation or basis; serving for thefoundation. Hence: Essential, as an element, principle, or law;important; original; elementary; as, a fundamental truth; afundamental axiom.The fundamental reasons of this war. Shak.Some fundamental antithesis in nature. Whewell.Fundamental bass (Mus.), the root note of a chord; a bass formed ofthe roots or fundamental tones of the chords.-- Fundamental chord (Mus.), a chord, the lowest tone of which isits root.-- Fundamental colors, red, green, and violet-blue. See Primarycolors, under Color.
FUNDAMENTALLY
Primarily; originally; essentially; radically; at thefoundation; in origin or constituents. "Fundamentally defective."Burke.
FUNDHOLDER
One who has money invested in the public funds. J. S. Mill.
FUNDLESS
Destitute of funds.
FUNDUS
The bottom or base of any hollow organ; as, the fundus of thebladder; the fundus of the eye.
FUNEBRIAL
Pertaining to a funeral or funerals; funeral; funereal. [Obs.][Written also funebral.] Sir T. Browne.
FUNEBRIOUS
Funebrial. [Obs.]
FUNERAL
Per. taining to a funeral; used at the interment of the dead;as, funeral rites, honors, or ceremonies. Shak. Funeral pile, astructure of combustible material, upon which a dead body is placedto be reduced to ashes, as part of a funeral rite; a pyre.-- Fu"ner*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
FUNERATE
To bury with funeral rites. [Obs.] Cockeram.
FUNERATION
The act of burying with funeral rites. [Obs.] Knatchbull.
FUNEREAL
Suiting a funeral; pertaining to burial; solemn. Hence: Dark;dismal; mournful. Jer. Taylor.What seem to us but sad funereal tapers May be heaven's distantlamps. Longfellow.-- Fu*ne"re*al*ly, adv.
FUNEST
Lamentable; doleful. [R.] "Funest and direful deaths."Coleridge.A forerunner of something very funest. Evelyn.
FUNGAL
Of or pertaining to fungi.
FUNGATE
A salt of fungic acid. [Formerly written also fungiate.]
FUNGE
A blockhead; a dolt; a fool. [Obs.] Burton.
FUNGI
See Fungus.
FUNGI IMPERFECTI
A heterogenous group of fungi of which the complete lifehistory is not known. Some undoubtedly represent the conidium stagesof various Ascomycetes. The group is divided into the ordersSphรฆropsidales, Melanconiales, and Moniliales.
FUNGIA
A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they areusually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of amushroom. Some of them are eighteen inches in diameter.
FUNGIAN
Of or pertaining to the Fungidรฆ, a family of stony corals.-- n.
FUNGIBLES
Things which may be furnished or restored in kind, asdistinguished from specific things; -- called also fungible things.Burrill.
FUNGIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid.
FUNGICIDE
Anything that kills fungi.-- Fun`gi*ci"dal, n.
FUNGIFORM
Shaped like a fungus or mushroom. Fungiform papillรฆ (Anat.),numerous small, rounded eminences on the upper surface of the tongue.
FUNGILLIFORM
Shaped like a small fungus.
FUNGIN
A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi andmushrooms.
FUNGITE
A fossil coral resembling Fungia.
FUNGIVOROUS
Eating fungi; -- said of certain insects and snails.
FUNGOID
Like a fungus; fungous; spongy.
FUNGOLOGIST
A mycologist.
FUNGOLOGY
Mycology.
FUNGOSITY
The quality of that which is fungous; fungous excrescence.Dunglison.
FUNGUS
Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group ofthallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts,smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each.
FUNIC
Funicular.
FUNICLE
The little stalk that attaches a seed to the placenta.
FUNICULAR
Pertaining to a funiculus; made up of, or resembling, afuniculus, or funiculi; as, a funicular ligament. Funicular action(Mech.), the force or action exerted by a rope in drawing togetherthe supports to which its ends are Fastened, when acted upon byforces applied in a direction transverse to the rope, as in thearcher's bow.-- Funicular curve. Same as Catenary.-- Funicular machine (Mech.), an apparatus for illustrating certainprinciples in statics, consisting of a cord or chain attached at oneend to a fixed point, and having the other passed over a pulley andsustaining a weight, while one or more other weights are suspendedfrom the cord at points between the fixed support and the pulley.-- Funicular polygon (Mech.), the polygonal figure assumed by a cordfastened at its extremities, and sustaining weights at differentpoints.
FUNICULATE
Forming a narrow ridge.
FUNILIFORM
Resembling a cord in toughness and flexibility, as the roots ofsome endogenous trees.
FUNIS
A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string.
FUNK
An offensive smell; a stench. [Low]
FUNKY
Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking.[Colloq. Eng.]
FUNNELFORM
Having the form of a funnel, or tunnel; that is, expandinggradually from the bottom upward, as the corolla of some flowers;infundibuliform.
FUNNY
Droll; comical; amusing; laughable. Funny bone. See crazy bone,under Crazy.
FUR
Articles of clothing made of fur; as, a set of furs for a lady(a collar, tippet, or cape, muff, etc.).Wrapped up in my furs. Lady M. W. Montagu.
FURACIOUS
Given to theft; thievish. [Obs.]
FURACITY
Addictedness to theft; thievishness. [Obs.]
FURBELOW
A plaited or gathered flounce on a woman's garment.
FURBISH
To rub or scour to brightness; to clean; to burnish; as, tofurbish a sword or spear. Shak.Furbish new the name of John a Gaunt. Shak.
FURBISHABLE
Capable of being furbished.
FURBISHER
One who furbishes; esp., a sword cutler, who finishes swordblades and similar weapons.
FURCATION
A branching like a. fork.
FURCIFEROUS
Rascally; scandalous. [R.] "Furciferous knaves." De Quincey.
FURCULA
A forked process; the wishbone or furculum.
FURCULAR
Shaped like a fork; furcate.
FURCULUM
The wishbone or merrythought of birds, formed by the unitedclavicles.
FURDLE
To draw up into a bundle; to roll up. [Ods.]
FURFUR
Scurf; dandruff.
FURFURACEOUS
Made of bran; like bran; scurfy.
FURFURAN
A colorless, oily substance, C4H4O, obtained by distillingcertain organic substances, as pine wood, salts of pyromucic acid,etc.; -- called also tetraphenol.
FURFURATION
Falling of scurf from the head; desquamation.
FURFURINE
A white, crystalline base, obtained indirectly from furfurol.
FURFUROL
A colorless oily liquid, C4H3O.CHO, of a pleasant odor,obtained by the distillation of bran, sugar, etc., and regarded as analdehyde derivative of furfuran; -- called also furfural.
FURFUROUS
Made of bran; furfuraceous. [R.] "Furfurous bread." SydneySmith.
FURIAL
Furious; raging; tormenting. [Obs.] Chaucer.
FURIBUNDAL
Full of rage. [Obs.] G. Harvey.
FURIES
See Fury, 3.
FURILE
A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O)2.C2O2, obtained by theoxidation of furoin. [Written also furil.]
FURILIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, furile; as, furilic acid.
FURIOSO
With great force or vigor; vehemently.
FURL
To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as asail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to oraround its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line. Totten.
FURLONG
A measure of length; the eighth part of a mile; forty rods; twohundred and twenty yards.
FURLOUGH
Leave of abserice; especially, leave given to an offcer orsoldier to be absent from service for a certain time; also, thedocument granting leave of absence.
FURNIMENT
Furniture. [Obs.] Spenser.
FURNISH
That which is furnished as a specimen; a sample; a supply.[Obs.] Greene.
FURNISHER
One who supplies or fits out.
FURNISHMENT
The act of furnishing, or of supplying furniture; also,furniture. [Obs.] Daniel.
FURNITURE
A mixed or compound stop in an organ; -- sometimes calledmixture.
FUROIN
A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol.
FURORE
Excitement; commotion; enthusiasm.
FURRIER
A dealer in furs; one who makes or sells fur goods.
FURRING
Double planking of a ship's side.
FURROWY
Furrowed. [R.] Tennyson.
FURTHER
To a greater distance; in addition; moreover. See Farther.Carries us, I know not how much further, into familiar company. M.Arnold.They sdvanced us far as Eleusis and Thria; but no further. Jowett(Thucyd. ).Further off, not so near; apart by a greater distance.
FURTHERANCE
The act of furthering or helping forward; promotion;advancement; progress.I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for yourfurthersnce and joy of faith. Phil. i. 25.Built of furtherance and pursuing, Not of spent deeds, but of doing.Emerson.
FURTHERER
One who furthers. or helps to advance; a promoter. Shak.
FURTHERMORE
or conj. Moreover; besides; in addition to what has been said.
FURTHERMOST
Most remote; furthest.
FURTHERSOME
Tending to further, advance, or promote; helpful; advantageous.[R.]You will not find it furthersome. Carlyle.
FURTHEST
superl. Most remote; most in advance; farthest. See Further, a.
FURTIVE
Stolen; obtained or characterized by stealth; sly; secret;stealthy; as, a furtive look. Prior.A hasty and furtive ceremony. Hallam.
FURTIVELY
Stealthily by theft. Lover.
FURUNCLE
A superficial, inflammatory tumor, suppurating with a centralcore; a boil.
FURUNCULAR
Of or pertaining to a furuncle; marked by the presence offuruncles.
FURY
A thief. [Obs.]Have an eye to your plate, for there be furies. J. Fleteher.
FURZE
A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europรฆus), with beautiful yellowflowers, very common upon the plains and hills of Great Britain; --called also gorse, and whin. The dwarf furze is Ulex nanus.
FURZECHAT
The whinchat; -- called also furzechuck.
FURZELING
An English warbler (Melizophilus provincialis); -- called alsofurze wren, and Dartford warbler.
FURZEN
Furzy; gorsy. [Obs.] Holland.
FURZY
bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze.Gay.
FUSAROLE
A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter roundof capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders ofarchitecture.
FUSCATION
A darkening; obscurity; obfuscation. [R.] Blount.
FUSCIN
A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinalepithelium; a variety of melanin.
FUSCINE
A dark-colored substance obtained from empyreumatic animal oil.[R.]
FUSCOUS
Brown or grayish black; darkish.Sad and fuscous colors, as black or brown, or deep purple and thelike. Burke.
FUSE
A tube or casing filled with combustible matter, by means ofwhich a charge of powder is ignited, as in blasting; -- called alsofuzee. See Fuze. Fuse hole, the hole in a shell prepared for thereception of the fuse. Farrow.
FUSEE
A small packet of explosive material with wire appendagesallowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track. It willexplode with a loud report when run over by a train, and is used toprovide a warning signal to the engineer.
FUSELAGE
An elongated body or frame of an aรซroplane or flying machine;sometimes, erroneously, any kind of frame or body. Many aรซroplaneshave no fuselage, properly so called.
FUSIBILITY
The quality of being fusible.
FUSIBLE
CapabIe of being melted or liquefied. Fusible metal, any alloyof different metals capable of being easily fused, especially analloy of five parts of bismuth, three of lead, and two of tin, whichmelts at a temperature below that of boiling water. Ure.-- Fusible plug (Steam Boiler), a piece of easily fusible alloy,placed in one of the sheets and intended to melt and blow off thesteam in case of low water.
FUSIFORM
Shaped like a spindle; tapering at each end; as, a fusiformroot; a fusiform cell.
FUSIL
A light kind of flintlock musket, formerly in use.
FUSILE
Same as Fusil, a.
FUSILLADE
A simultaneous discharge of firearms.
FUSION
The union, or binding together, of adjacent parts or tissues.
FUSOME
Handy; reat; handsome; notable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
FUSS
To be overbusy or unduly anxious about trifles; to make abustle or ado. Sir W. Scott.
FUSSILY
In a fussy manner. Byron.
FUSSINESS
The quality of being fussy.
FUSSY
Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado abouttrifles; overnice; fidgety.Not at all fussy about his personal appearance. R. G. White.
FUST
The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster. Gwilt.
FUSTED
Moldy; ill-smelling. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
FUSTERIC
The coloring matter of fustet. Ure.
FUSTET
The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub ofSouthern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, isnot durable without a mordant. Ure.
FUSTIANIST
A writer of fustian. [R.] Milton.
FUSTIC
The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the WestIndies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic. [Writtenalso fustoc.]
FUSTIGATE
To cudgel. [R.] Bailey.
FUSTIGATION
A punishment by beating with a stick or club; cudgeling.This satire, composed of actual fustigation. Motley.
FUSTILARIAN
A low fellow; a stinkard; a scoundrel. [Obs.] Shak.
FUSTINESS
A fusty state or quality; moldiness; mustiness; an ill smellfrom moldiness.
FUSURE
Act of fusing; fusion. [R.]
FUTCHEL
The jaws between which the hinder end of a carriage tongue isinserted. Knight.
FUTILELY
In a futile manner.
FUTILOUS
Futile; trifling. [Obs.]
FUTTOCK
One of the crooked timbers which are scarfed together to formthe lower part of the compound rib of a vessel; one of the crookedtransverse timbers passing across and over the keel. Futtock plates(Naut.), plates of iron to which the dead-eyes of the topmast riggingare secured.-- Futtock shrouds, short iron shrouds leading from the upper partof the lower mast or of the main shrouds to the edge of the top, orthrough it, and connecting the topmast rigging with the lower mast.Totten.
FUTURABLE
Capable of being future; possible to occur. [R.]Not only to things future, but futurable. Fuller.
FUTURE
That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any timeafter the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present.Future tense (Gram.), the tense or modification of a verb whichexpresses a future act or event.
FUTURELESS
Without prospect of betterment in the future. W. D. Howells.
FUTURELY
In time to come. [Obs.] Raleigh.
FUTURISM
A movement or phase of post-impressionism (which see, below).
FUTURIST
One who believes or maintains that the fulfillment of theprophecies of the Bible is to be in the future.
FUTURITIAL
Relating to what is to come; pertaining to futurity; future.[R.]
FUTURITION
The state of being future; futurity. [R.]Nothing . . . can have this imagined futurition, but as it isdecreed. Coleridge.
FUZE
A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell,etc. See Fuse, n. Chemical fuze, a fuze in which substances separateduntil required for action are then brought into contact, and unitingchemically, produce explosion.-- Concussion fuze, a fuze ignited by the striking of theprojectile.-- Electric fuze, a fuze which is ignited by heat or a sparkproduced by an electric current.-- Friction fuze, a fuze which is ignited by the heat evolved byfriction.-- Percussion fuze, a fuze in which the ignition is produced by ablow on some fulminating compound.-- Time fuze, a fuze adapted, either by its length or by thecharacter of its composition, to burn a certain time before producingan explosion.
FUZZ
To make drunk. [Obs.] Wood.
FUZZLE
To make drunk; to intoxicate; to fuddle. [Obs.] Burton.
FY
A word which expresses blame, dislike, disapprobation,abhorrence, or contempt. See Fie.
FYKE
A long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can passeasily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net.Cozzens.
FYLLOT
A rebated cross, formerly used as a secret emblem, and a commonornament. It is also called gammadion, and swastika.
FYTTE
See Fit a song. [Archaic]
G
G is the name of the fifth tone of the natural or model scale;-- called also sol by the Italians and French. It was also originallyused as the treble clef, and has gradually changed into the characterrepresented in the margin. See Clef. G# (G sharp) is a toneintermediate between G and A.
GAB
The hook on the end of an eccentric rod opposite the strap.See. Illust. of Eccentric.
GABARAGE
A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods. [Obs.]
GABBLER
One who gabbles; a prater.
GABBRO
A name originally given by the Italians to a kind ofserpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generallyused for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellarpyroxene (diallage) and labradorite, with sometimes chrysolite(olivine gabbro).
GABEL
A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; anexcise. Burrill.He enables St. Peter to pay his gabel by the ministry of a fish. Jer.Taylor.
GABELER
A collector of gabels or taxes.
GABELLE
A tax, especially on salt. [France] Brande & C.
GABELLEMAN
A gabeler. Carlyle.
GABER-LUNZIE
A beggar with a wallet; a licensed beggar. [Scot.] Sir W.Scott.
GABERDINE
See Gabardine.
GABERT
A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation. [Scot.] Jamieson.
GABION
A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without abottom. Gabions are made of various sizes, and filled with earth inbuilding fieldworks to shelter men from an enemy's fire.
GABIONADE
A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks,protecting them from enfilading fire.
GABIONAGE
The part of a fortification built of gabions.
GABIONED
Furnished with gabions.
GABIONNADE
See Gabionade.
GABLE
A cable. [Archaic] Chapman.
GABLET
A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over atabernacle, niche, etc.
GABLOCK
A false spur or gaff, fitted on the heel of a gamecock. Wright.
GABY
A simpleton; a dunce; a lout. [Colloq.]
GAD
To walk about; to rove or go about, without purpose; hence, torun wild; to be uncontrolled. "The gadding vine." Milton.Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way Jer. ii. 36.
GADABOUT
A gadder [Colloq.]
GADBEE
The gadfly.
GADDER
One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip.
GADDING
Going about much, needlessly or without purpose.Envy is a gadding passion, and walketh the streets. Bacon.The good nuns would check her gadding tongue. Tennyson.Gadding car, in quarrying, a car which carries a drilling machine soarranged as to drill a line of holes.
GADDINGLY
In a roving, idle manner.
GADDISH
Disposed to gad.-- Gad"dish*nes, n. "Gaddishness and folly." Abp. Leighton.
GADE
To gather. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GADFLY
Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera ofbotflies.
GADHELIC
Of or pertaining to that division of the Celtic languages,which includes the Irish, Gaelic, and Manx. J. Peile.
GADIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied toan acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid.
GADITANIAN
Of or relating to Cadiz, in Spain.-- n.
GADLING
See Gad, n., 4.
GADMAN
A gadsman.
GADOID
Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidรฆ) whichincludes the cod, haddock, and hake.-- n.
GADOLINIA
A rare earth, regarded by some as an oxide of the supposedelement gadolinium, by others as only a mixture of the oxides ofyttrium, erbium, ytterbium, etc.
GADOLINIC
Pertaining to or containing gadolinium.
GADOLINITE
A mineral of a nearly black color and vitreous luster, andconsisting principally of the silicates of yttrium, cerium, and iron.
GADOLINIUM
A supposed rare metallic element, with a characteristicspectrum, found associated with yttrium and other rare metals. Itsindividuality and properties have not yet been determined.
GADSMAN
One who uses a gad or goad in driving.
GADUIN
A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature,found in cod-liver oil.
GADWALL
A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found inthe northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck.[Written also gaddwell.]
GAEKWAR
The title of the ruling Prince of Baroda, in Gujarat, inBombay, India.
GAEL
A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; nowesp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin.
GAELIC
Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders ofScotland; as, the Gaelic language.
GAFF
The spar upon which the upper edge of a fore-and-aft sail isextended.
GAFF-TOPSAIL
A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaffand its luff upon the topmast.
GAG LAW
A law or ruling prohibiting proper or free debate, as inclosure. [Colloq. or Cant]
GAG-TOOTHED
Having gagteeth. [Obs.]
GAGATE
Agate. [Obs.] Fuller.
GAGE
A variety of plum; as, the greengage; also, the blue gage,frost gage, golden gage, etc., having more or less likeness to thegreengage. See Greengage.
GAGER
A measurer. See Gauger.
GAGGER
A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sandin place.
GAGGLE
To make a noise like a goose; to cackle. Bacon.
GAGTOOTH
A projecting tooth. [Obs.]
GAHNITE
Zinc spinel; automolite.
GAIDIC
Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtainedfrom hypogeic acid.
GAIETY
Same as Gayety.
GAILER
A jailer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GAILLARD
Gay; brisk; merry; galliard. Chaucer.
GAILLIARDE
A lively French and Italian dance.
GAILY
Merrily; showily. See gaily.
GAIN
A square or beveled notch cut out of a girder, binding joist,or other timber which supports a floor beam, so as to receive the endof the floor beam.
GAINABLE
Capable of being obtained or reached. Sherwood.
GAINER
One who gains. Shak.
GAINFUL
Profitable; advantageous; lucrative. "A gainful speculation."Macaulay.-- Gain"ful*ly, adv.-- Gain"ful*ness, n.
GAINGIVING
A misgiving. [Obs.]
GAINLESS
Not producing gain; unprofitable. Hammond.-- Gain"less/ness, n.
GAINLY
Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously. [Obs.] Dr. H.More.
GAINPAIN
Bread-gainer; -- a term applied in the Middle Ages to the swordof a hired soldier.
GAINSAY
To contradict; to deny; to controvert; to dispute; to forbid.I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your adversaries shallnot be able to gainsay nor resist. Luke xxi. 15.The just gods gainsay That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother,My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword Be drained. Shak.
GAINSAYER
One who gainsays, contradicts, or denies. "To convince thegainsayers." Tit. i. 9.
GAINSBOROUGH HAT
A woman's broad-brimmed hat of a form thought to resemble thoseshown in portraits by Thomas Gainsborough, the English artist (1727-88).
GAINSOME
A contraction of Against.
GAINSTAND
To withstand; to resist. [Obs.]Durst . . . gainstand the force of so many enraged desires. Sir P.Sidney.
GAINSTRIVE
To strive or struggle against; to withstand. [Obs.] Spenser.
GAIRFOWL
See Garefowl.
GAITED
Having (such) a gait; -- used in composition; as, slow-gaited;heavy-gaited.
GAITER
To dress with gaiters.
GALA
Pomp, show, or festivity. Macaulay. Gala day, a day of mirthand festivity; a holiday.
GALACTA-GOGUE
An agent exciting secretion of milk.
GALACTODENSIMETER
Same as Galactometer.
GALACTOMETER
An instrument for ascertaining the quality of milk (i.e., itsrichness in cream) by determining its specific gravity; a lactometer.
GALACTOPHAGIST
One who eats, or subsists on, milk.
GALACTOPHAGOUS
Feeding on milk.
GALACTOPHOROUS
Milk-carrying; lactiferous; -- applied to the ducts of mammaryglands.
GALACTOPOIETIC
Increasing the flow of milk; milk-producing.-- n. A galactopoietic substance.
GALACTOSE
A white, crystalline sugar, C6H12O6, isomeric with dextrose,obtained by the decomposition of milk sugar, and also from certaingums. When oxidized it forms mucic acid. Called also lactose (thoughit is not lactose proper).
GALAGE
See Galoche. Spenser.
GALAGO
A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species.
GALANTINE
A dish of veal, chickens, or other white meat, freed frombones, tied up, boiled, and served cold. Smart.
GALAPEE TREE
The West Indian Sciadophyllum Brownei, a tree with very largedigitate leaves.
GALATEA
A kind of striped cotton fabric, usually of superior qualityand striped with blue or red on white.
GALATIAN
Of or pertaining to Galatia or its inhabitants.-- A native or inhabitant of Galatia, in Asia Minor; a descendant ofthe Gauls who settled in Asia Minor.
GALAXY
The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen atnight stretching across the heavens, and which is composed ofinnumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishableonly with the telescope. The term has recently been used for remoteclusters of stars. Nichol.
GALBE
The general outward form of any solid object, as of a column ora vase.
GALE
To sale, or sail fast.
GALEA
The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower.
GALEAS
See Galleass.
GALEI
That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks.
GALENA
A remedy or antidose for poison; theriaca. [Obs.] Parr.
GALENISM
The doctrines of Galen.
GALENIST
A follower of Galen.
GALENITE
Galena; lead ore.
GALEOPITHECUS
A genus of flying Insectivora, formerly called flying lemurs.See Colugo.
GALERICULATE
Covered as with a hat or cap. Smart.
GALERITE
A cretaceous fossil sea urchin of the genus Galerites.
GALICIAN
Of or pertaining to Galicia, in Spain, or to Galicia, thekingdom of Austrian Poland.-- n.
GALILEAN
Of or pertaining to Galileo; as, the Galilean telescope. SeeTelescope.
GALILEE
A porch or waiting room, usually at the west end of an abbeychurch, where the monks collected on returning from processions,where bodies were laid previous to interment, and where women wereallowed to see the monks to whom they were related, or to hear divineservice. Also, frequently applied to the porch of a church, as at Elyand Durham cathedrals. Gwilt.
GALIMATIAS
Nonsense; gibberish; confused and unmeaning talk; confusedmixture.Her dress, like her talk, is a galimatias of several countries.Walpole.
GALINGALE
A plant of the Sedge family (Cyperus longus) having aromaticroots; also, any plant of the same genus. Chaucer.Meadow, set with slender galingale. Tennyson.
GALIPOT
An impure resin of turpentine, hardened on the outside of pinetrees by the spontaneous evaporation of its essential oil. Whenpurified, it is called yellow pitch, white pitch, or Burgundy pitch.
GALL
The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder,beneath the liver. It consists of the secretion of the liver, orbile, mixed with that of the mucous membrane of the gall bladder.
GALLANT
Polite and attentive to ladies; courteous to women; chivalrous.
GALLANTLY
In a polite or courtly manner; like a gallant or wooer.
GALLANTNESS
The quality of being gallant.
GALLATE
A salt of gallic acid.
GALLATURE
The tread, treadle, or chalasa of an egg.
GALLEASS
A large galley, having some features of the galleon, asbroadside guns; esp., such a vessel used by the southern nations ofEurope in the 16th and 17th centuries. See Galleon, and Galley.[Written variously galeas, gallias, etc.]
GALLEIN
A red crystalline dyestuff, obtained by heating togetherpyrogallic and phthalic acids.
GALLEON
A sailing vessel of the 15th and following centuries, oftenhaving three or four decks, and used for war or commerce. The term isoften rather indiscriminately applied to any large sailing vessel.The gallens . . . were huge, round-stemmed, clumsy vessels, withbulwarks three or four feet thick, and built up at stem and stern,like castels. Motley.
GALLEOT
See Galiot.
GALLERY
A frame, like a balcony, projecting from the stern or quarterof a ship, and hence called stern galery or quarter gallry, -- seldomfound in vessels built since 1850.
GALLETYLE
A little tile of glazed earthenware. [Obs.] "The substance ofgalletyle." Bacon.
GALLEY
A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails ornot; as:(a) A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in theMiddle Ages, and down to the 17th century.(b) A name given by analogy to the Greek, Roman, and other ancientvessels propelled by oars.(c) A light, open boat used on the Thames by customhouse officers,press gangs, and also for pleasure.(d) One of the small boats carried by a man-of-war.
GALLEY-BIRD
The European green woodpecker; also, the spotted woodpecker.[Prov. Eng.]
GALLEY-WORM
A chilognath myriapod of the genus Iulus, and allied genera,having numerous short legs along the sides; a milliped or "thousandlegs." See Chilognatha.
GALLFLY
An insect that deposits its eggs in plants, and occasionsgalls, esp. any small hymenopteran of the genus Cynips and alliedgenera. See Illust. of Gall.
GALLIAMBIC
Consisting of two iambic dimeters catalectic, the last of whichlacks the final syllable; -- said of a kind of verse.
GALLIAN
Gallic; French. [Obs.] Shak.
GALLIARD
Gay; brisk; active. [Obs.]
GALLIARDISE
Excessive gayety; merriment. [Obs.]The mirth and galliardise of company. Sir. T. Browne.
GALLIARDNESS
Gayety. [Obs.] Gayton.
GALLIASS
Same as Galleass.
GALLIC
Pertaining to, or containing, gallium.
GALLICAN
Of or pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallic; French; as, theGallican church or clergy.
GALLICANISM
The principles, tendencies, or action of those, within theRoman Catholic Church in France, who (esp. in 1682) sought torestrict the papal authority in that country and increase the powerof the national church. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.
GALLICISM
A mode of speech peculiar to the French; a French idiom; also,in general, a French mode or custom.
GALLICIZE
To conform to the French mode or idiom.
GALLIED
Worried; flurried; frightened. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
GALLIFORM
Like the Gallinae (or Galliformes) in structure.
GALLIGASKINS
Loose hose or breeches; leather leg quards. The word is usedloosely and often in a jocose sense.
GALLIMATIA
Senseless talk. [Obs. or R.] See Galimatias.
GALLIN
A substance obtained by the reduction of galleรฏn.
GALLINACEAE
Same as Gallinae.
GALLINACEAN
One of the Gallinae or gallinaceous birds.
GALLINACEOUS
Resembling the domestic fowls and pheasants; of or pertainingto the Gallinae.
GALLINAE
An order of birds, including the common domestic fowls,pheasants, grouse, quails, and allied forms; -- sometimes calledRasores.
GALLING
Fitted to gall or chafe; vexing; harassing; irritating.-- Gall"ing*ly, adv.
GALLINIPPER
A large mosquito.
GALLINULE
One of several wading birds, having long, webless toes, and afrontal shield, belonging to the family Rallidae. They are remarkablefor running rapidly over marshes and on floating plants. The purplegallinule of America is Ionornis Martinica, that of the Old World isPorphyrio porphyrio. The common European gallinule (Gallinulachloropus) is also called moor hen, water hen, water rail, moor coot,night bird, and erroneously dabchick. Closely related to it is theFlorida gallinule (Gallinula galeata).
GALLIOT
See Galiot.
GALLIPOLI OIL
An inferior kind of olive oil, brought from Gallipoli, inItaly.
GALLIPOT
A glazed earthen pot or vessel, used by druggists andapothecaries for containing medicines, etc.
GALLIUM
A rare metallic element, found in certain zinc ores. It iswhite, hard, and malleable, resembling aluminium, and remarcable forits low melting point (86
GALLIVANT
To play the beau; to wait upon the ladies; also, to roam aboutfor pleasure without any definite plan. [Slang] Dickens.
GALLIVAT
A small armed vessel, with sails and oars, -- used on theMalabar coast. A. Chalmers.
GALLIWASP
A West Indian lizard (Celestus occiduus), about a foot long,imagined by the natives to be venomous.
GALLIZE
In wine making, to add water and sugar to (unfermented grapejuice) so as to increase the quantity of wine produced. --Gal`li*za"tion (#), n.
GALLNUT
A round gall produced on the leaves and shoots of variousspecies of the oak tree. See Gall, and Nutgall.
GALLOMANIA
An excessive admiration of what is French.-- Gal`lo*ma"ni*ac, n.
GALLON
A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for themost part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure.
GALLOONED
Furnished or adorned with galloon.
GALLOP
To cause to gallop.
GALLOPER
A carriage on which very small guns were formerly mounted, thegun resting on the shafts, without a limber. Farrow. Galloper gun, alight gun, supported on a galloper, -- formerly attached to Britishinfantry regiments.
GALLOPIN
An under servant for the kitchen; a scullion; a cook's errandboy. [Obs.] Halliwell.
GALLOPING
Going at a gallop; progressing rapidly; as, a galloping horse.
GALLOTANNIC
Pertaining to the tannin or nutgalls. Gallotannic acid. SeeTannic acid, under Tannic.
GALLOW
To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t. [Obs.] Shak.
GALLOWAY
A small horse of a breed raised at Galloway, Scotland; --called also garran, and garron.
GALLOWGLASS
A heavy-armed foot soldier from Ireland and the Western Islesin the time of Edward Shak.
GALLOWS
The rest for the tympan when raised.
GALLSTONE
A concretion, or calculus, formed in the gall bladder orbiliary passages. See Calculus, n., 1.
GALLY
To frighten; to worry. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] T. Brown.
GALLYGASKINS
See Galligaskins.
GALOOT
A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy. [Slang, U.S.]
GALOP
A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to thedance.
GALORE
Plenty; abundance; in abundance.
GALOSHE
Same as Galoche.
GALPE
To gape,; to yawn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GALSOME
Angry; malignant. [Obs.] Bp. Morton.
GALT
Same as Gault.
GALVANIC
Of or pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, galvanism;employing or producing electrical currents. Galvanic battery (Elec.),an apparatus for generating electrical currents by the mutual actionof certain liquids and metals; -- now usually called voltaic battery.See Battery.-- Galvanic circuit or circle. (Elec.) See under Circuit.-- Galvanic pile (Elec.), the voltaic pile. See under Voltaic.
GALVANIST
One versed in galvanism.
GALVANIZATION
The act of process of galvanizing.
GALVANIZER
One who, or that which, galvanize.
GALVANOCAUSTIC
Relating to the use of galvanic heat as a caustic, especiallyin medicine.
GALVANOCAUTERY
Cautery effected by a knife or needle heated by the passage ofa galvanic current.
GALVANOGLYPHY
Same as Glyphography.
GALVANOGRAPH
A copperplate produced by the method of galvanography; also, apicture printed from such a plate.
GALVANOGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to galvanography.
GALVANOLOGIST
One who describes the phenomena of galvanism; a writer ongalvanism.
GALVANOLOGY
A treatise on galvanism, or a description of its phenomena.
GALVANOMETER
An instrument or apparatus for measuring the intensity of anelectric current, usually by the deflection of a magnetic needle.Differential galvanometer. See under Differental, a.-- Sine galvanometer, Cosine galvanometer, Tangent galvanometer(Elec.), a galvanometer in which the sine, cosine, or tangentrespectively, of the angle through which the needle is deflected, isproportional to the strength of the current passed through theinstrument.
GALVANOMETRIC
Of, pertaining to, or measured by, a galvanometer.
GALVANOMETRY
The art or process of measuring the force of electric currents.
GALVANOPLASTIC
Of or pertaining to the art or process of electrotyping;employing, or produced by, the process of electolytic deposition; as,a galvano-plastic copy of a medal or the like.
GALVANOPLASTY
The art or process of electrotypy.
GALVANOPUNCTURE
Same as Electro-puncture.
GALVANOSCOPE
An instrument or apparatus for detecting the presence ofelectrical currents, especially such as are of feeble intensity.
GALVANOSCOPIC
Of or pertaining to a galvanoscope.
GALVANOSCOPY
The use of galvanism in physiological experiments.
GALVANOTONUS
Same as Electrotonus.
GALVANOTROPISM
The tendency of a root to place its axis in the line of agalvanic current.
GALWES
Gallows. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GAM
To have a gam with; to pay a visit to, esp. among whalers atsea.
GAMA GRASS
A species of grass (Tripsacum dactyloides) tall, stout, andexceedingly productive; cultivated in the West Indies, Mexico, andthe Southern States of North America as a forage grass; -- calledalso sesame grass.
GAMASHES
High boots or buskins; in Scotland, short spatterdashes orriding trousers, worn over the other clothing.
GAMBA
A viola da gamba.
GAMBADOES
Same as Gamashes.His thin legs tenanted a pair of gambadoes fastened at the side withrusty clasps. Sir W. Scott.
GAMBEER
To gaff, as mackerel.
GAMBESON
Same as Gambison.
GAMBET
Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler.
GAMBISON
A defensive garment formerly in use for the body, made of clothstuffed and quilted.
GAMBIST
A performer upon the viola di gamba. See under Viola.
GAMBIT
A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed togain an attacking position.
GAMBLE
To play or game for money or other stake.
GAMBLER
One who gambles.
GAMBOGE
A concrete juice, or gum resin, produced by several species oftrees in Siam, Ceylon, and Malabar. It is brought in masses, orcylindrical rolls, from Cambodia, or Cambogia, -- whence its name.The best kind is of a dense, compact texture, and of a beatifulreddish yellow. Taking internally, it is a strong and harsh catharticad emetic. [Written also camboge.]
GAMBOL
A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank.Dryden.
GAMBREL
To truss or hang up by means of a gambrel. Beau. & Fl.
GAMBROON
A kind of twilled linen cloth for lining. Simmonds.
GAME
Crooked; lame; as, a game leg. [Colloq.]
GAME FOWL
A handsome breed of the common fowl, remarkable for the greatcourage and pugnacity of the males.
GAMECOCK
The male game fowl.
GAMEFUL
Full of game or games.
GAMEKEEPER
One who has the care of game, especially in a park or preserve.Blackstone.
GAMELESS
Destitute of game.
GAMELY
In a plucky manner; spiritedly.
GAMENESS
Endurance; pluck.
GAMESOME
Gay; sportive; playful; frolicsome; merry. Shak.Gladness of the gamesome crowd. Byron.-- Game"some*ly, adv.-- Game"some*ness, n.
GAMETE
A sexual cell or germ cell; a conjugating cell which uniteswith another of like or unlike character to form a new individual. InBot., gamete designates esp. the similar sex cells of the lowerthallophytes which unite by conjugation, forming a zygospore. Thegametes of higher plants are of two sorts, sperm (male) and egg(female); their union is called fertilization, and the resultingzygote an oรถspore. In Zoรถl., gamete is most commonly used of thesexual cells of certain Protozoa, though also extended to the germcells of higher forms.
GAMETOPHYTE
In the alternation of generations in plants, that generation orphase which bears sex organs. In the lower plants, as the algรฆ, thegametophyte is the conspicuous part of the plant body; in mosses itis the so-called moss plant; in ferns it is reduced to a small, earlyperishing body; and in seed plants it is usually microscopic orrudimentary.
GAMIC
Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed bythe union of the male and female elements.
GAMIN
A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab.In Japan, the gamins run after you, and say, 'Look at the Chinaman.'L. Oliphant.
GAMING
The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers;gambling.
GAMMA
The third letter (G) of the Greek alphabet.
GAMMA RAYS
Very penetrating rays not appreciably deflected by a magneticor electric field, emitted by radioactive substances. The prevailingview is that they are non-periodic ether pulses differing fromRรถntgen rays only in being more penetrating.
GAMMADION
A cross formed of four capital gammas, formerly used as amysterious ornament on ecclesiastical vestments, etc. See Fylfot.
GAMMER
An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an oldman.
GAMMON
The buttock or tight of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; thelower end of a flitch. Goldsmith.
GAMMONING
The lashing or iron band by which the bowsprit of a vessel issecured to the stem to opposite the lifting action of the forestays.Gammoning fashion, in the style of gammoning lashing, that is, havingthe turns of rope crossed.-- Gammoning hole (Naut.), a hole cut through the knee of the headof a vessel for the purpose of gammoning the bowsprit.
GAMOGENESIS
The production of offspring by the union of parents ofdifferent sexes; sexual reproduction; -- the opposite ofagamogenesis.
GAMOGENETIC
Relating to gamogenesis.-- Gam`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
GAMOMORPHISM
That stage of growth or development in an organism, in whichthe reproductive elements are generated and matured in preparationfor propagating the species.
GAMOPETALOUS
Having the petals united or joined so as to form a tube or cup;monopetalous.
GAMOPHYLLOUS
Composed of leaves united by their edges (coalescent). Gray.
GAMOSEPALOUS
Formed of united sepals; monosepalous.
GAMP
A large umbrella; --said to allude to Mrs. Gamp's umbrella, inDickens's "Martin Chuzzlewit."
GAMUT
The scale.
GAMY
Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till nearthe condition of tainting; high-flavored.
GAN
Began; commenced.
GANANCIAL
Designating, pertaining to, or held under, the Spanish systemof law (called ganancial system) which controls the title anddisposition of the property acquired during marriage by the husbandor wife.
GANCH
To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as theTurks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment.Ganching, which is to let fall from on high upon hooks, and there tohang until they die. Sandys.
GANDER
The male of any species of goose.
GANE
To yawn; to gape. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GANESA
The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence.
GANG
To go; to walk.
GANG-FLOWER
The common English milkwort (Polygala vulgaris), so called fromblossoming in gang week. Dr. Prior.
GANGER
One who oversees a gang of workmen. [R.] Mayhew.
GANGETIC
Pertaining to, or inhabiting, the Ganges; as, the Gangeticshark.
GANGION
A short line attached to a trawl. See Trawl, n.
GANGLION
A globular, hard, indolent tumor, situated somewhere on atendon, and commonly formed by the effusion of a viscid fluid intoit; -- called also weeping sinew. Ganglion cell, a nerve cell. SeeIllust. under Bipolar.
GANGLIONARY
Ganglionic.
GANGLIONIC
Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, ganglia organglion cells; as, a ganglionic artery; the ganglionic columns ofthe spinal cord.
GANGREL
Wandering; vagrant. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
GANGRENATE
To gangrene. [Obs.]
GANGRENE
A term formerly restricted to mortification of the soft tissueswhich has not advanced so far as to produce complete loss ofvitality; but now applied to mortification of the soft parts in anystage.
GANGRENESCENT
Tending to mortification or gangrene.
GANGRENOUS
Affected by, or produced by, gangrene; of the nature ofgangrene.
GANGUE
The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore.
GANGWAY
The opening through the bulwarks of a vessel by which personsenter or leave it.
GANIL
A kind of brittle limestone. [Prov. Eng.] Kirwan.
GANJA
The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking. It isextremely narcotic and intoxicating.
GANNET
One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, alliedto the pelicans.
GANOCEPHALA
A group of fossil amphibians allied to the labyrinthodonts,having the head defended by bony, sculptured plates, as in someganoid fishes.
GANOCEPHALOUS
Of or pertaining to the Ganocephala.
GANOID
Of or pertaining to Ganoidei.-- n. One of the Ganoidei. Ganoid scale (Zoรถl.), one kind of scalesof the ganoid fishes, composed of an inner layer of bone, and anouter layer of shining enamel. They are often so arranged as to forma coat of mail.
GANOIDAL
Ganoid.
GANOIDEI
One of the subclasses of fishes. They have an arterial cone andbulb, spiral intestinal valve, and the optic nerves united by achiasma. Many of the species are covered with bony plates, or withganoid scales; others have cycloid scales.
GANOIDIAN
Ganoid.
GANOINE
A peculiar bony tissue beneath the enamel of a ganoid scale.
GANSA
Same as Ganza. Bp. Hall.
GANTLET
A military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender wasmade to run between two files of men facing one another, who struckhim as he passed. To run the gantlet, to suffer the punishment of thegantlet; hence, to go through the ordeal of severe criticism orcontroversy, or ill-treatment at many hands.Winthrop ran the gantlet of daily slights. Palfrey.
GANTLINE
A line rigged to a mast; -- used in hoisting rigging; agirtline.
GANTLOPE
See Gantlet. [Obs.]
GANTRY
See Gauntree.
GANZ SYSTEM
A haulage system for canal boats, in which an electriclocomotive running on a monorail has its adhesion materiallyincreased by the pull of the tow rope on a series of inclinedgripping wheels.
GANZA
A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabledto be carried to the lunar world. [Also gansa.] Johnson.
GAOL
A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses orprovisional imprisonment; a jail. [Preferably, and in the UnitedStates usually, written jail.] Commission of general gaol delivery,an authority conferred upon judges and others included in it, fortrying and delivering every prisoner in jail when the judges, upontheir circuit, arrive at the place for holding court, and fordischarging any whom the grand jury fail to indict. [Eng.] -- Gaoldelivery. (Law) See Jail delivery, under Jail.
GAOLER
The keeper of a jail. See Jailer.
GAP
An opening in anything made by breaking or parting; as, a gapin a fence; an opening for a passage or entrance; an opening whichimplies a breach or defect; a vacant space or time; a hiatus; amountain pass.Miseries ensued by the opening of that gap. Knolles.It would make a great gap in your own honor. Shak.Gap lathe (Mach.), a turning lathe with a deep notch in the bed toadmit of turning a short object of large diameter.-- To stand in the gap, to expose one's self for the protection ofsomething; to make defense against any assailing danger; to take theplace of a fallen defender or supporter.-- To stop a gap, to secure a weak point; to repair a defect.
GAP-TOOTHED
Having interstices between the teeth. Dryden.
GAPE
The width of the mouth when opened, as of birds, fishes, etc.GAPES; THE GAPESThe gapes.(a) A fit of yawning.(b) A disease of young poultry and other birds, attended with muchgaping. It is caused by a parasitic nematode worm (Syngamustrachealis), in the windpipe, which obstructs the breathing. SeeGapeworm.
GAPESEED
Any strange sight. Wright.
GAPESING
Act of gazing about; sightseeing. [Prov. Eng.]
GAPEWORM
The parasitic worm that causes the gapes in birds. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
GAPINGSTOCK
One who is an object of open-mouthed wonder.I was to be a gapingstock and a scorn to the young volunteers.Godwin.
GAR
To cause; to make. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser.
GARAGE
To keep in a garage. [Colloq.]
GARANCIN
An extract of madder by sulphuric acid. It consists essentiallyof alizarin.
GARB
A sheaf of grain (wheat, unless otherwise specified).
GARBAGE
Offal, as the bowels of an animal or fish; refuse animal orvegetable matter from a kitchen; hence, anything worthless,disgusting, or loathsome. Grainger.
GARBED
Dressed; habited; clad.
GARBEL
Same as Garboard.
GARBLE
Impurities separated from spices, drugs, etc.; -- also calledgarblings.
GARBLER
One who garbles.
GARBOARD
One of the planks next the keel on the outside, which form agarboard strake. Garboard strake or streak, the first range or strakeof planks laid on a ship's bottom next the keel. Totten.
GARBOIL
Tumult; disturbance; disorder. [Obs.] Shak.
GARCINIA
A genus of plants, including the mangosteen tree (GarciniaMangostana), found in the islands of the Indian Archipelago; -- socalled in honor of Dr. Garcin.
GARCON
A boy; fellow; esp., a serving boy or man; a waiter; -- in Eng.chiefly applied to French waiters.
GARD
Garden. [Obs.] "Trees of the gard." F. Beaumont.
GARDANT
Turning the head towards the spectator, but not the body; --said of a lion or other beast.
GARDE CIVIQUE
See Army organization, above.
GARDEN
To lay out or cultivate a garden; to labor in a garden; topractice horticulture.
GARDENER
One who makes and tends a garden; a horticulturist.
GARDENIA
A genus of plants, some species of which produce beautiful andfragrant flowers; Cape jasmine; -- so called in honor of Dr.Alexander Garden.
GARDENING
The art of occupation of laying out and cultivating gardens;horticulture.
GARDENLESS
Destitute of a garden. Shelley.
GARDENLY
Like a garden. [R.] W. Marshall.
GARDENSHIP
Horticulture. [Obs.]
GARDON
A European cyprinoid fish; the id.
GARDYLOO
An old cry in throwing water, slops, etc., from the windows inEdingburgh. Sir. W. Scott.
GARE
Coarse wool on the legs of sheep. Blount.
GAREFOWL
The great auk; also, the razorbill. See Auk. [Written alsogairfowl, and gurfel.]
GARGALIZE
To gargle; to rinse. [Obs.] Marston.
GARGANEY
A small European duck (Anas querquedula); -- called alsocricket teal, and summer teal.
GARGANTUAN
Characteristic of Gargantua, a gigantic, wonderful personage;enormous; prodigious; inordinate.
GARGARISM
A gargle.
GARGARIZE
To gargle; to rinse or wash, as the mouth and throat. [Obs.]Bacon.
GARGET
See Poke.
GARGIL
A distemper in geese, affecting the head.
GARGLE
See Gargoyle.
GARGOL
A distemper in swine; garget. Mortimer.
GARGOULETTE
A water cooler or jug with a handle and spout; a gurglet.Mollett.
GARGOYLE
A spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, oftencarved grotesquely. [Written also gargle, gargyle, and gurgoyle.]
GARGYLE
See Gargoyle.
GARIBALDI
A California market fish (Pomancentrus rubicundus) of a deepscarlet color.
GARLAND
To deck with a garland. B. Jonson.
GARLANDLESS
Destitute of a garland. Shelley.
GARLIC
A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivatedvariety), having a bulbous root, a very strong smell, and an acrid,pungent taste. Each root is composed of several lesser bulbs, calledcloves of garlic, inclosed in a common membranous coat, and easilyseparable.
GARLICKY
Like or containing garlic.
GARMENT
Any article of clothing, as a coat, a gown, etc.No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto old garment. Matt. ix. 16.
GARMENTED
Having on a garment; attired; enveloped, as with a garment.[Poetic]A lovely lady garmented in light From her own beauty. Shelley.
GARMENTURE
Clothing; dress.
GARNER
A granary; a building or place where grain is stored forpreservation.
GARNET
A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in theirconstituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), andconforming to the same general chemical formula. The commonest coloris red, the luster is vitreous, and the hardness greater than that ofquartz. The dodecahedron and trapezohedron are the common forms.
GARNETIFEROUS
Containing garnets.
GARNIERITE
An amorphous mineral of apple-green color; a hydrous silicateof nickel and magnesia. It is an important ore of nickel.
GARNISH
To ornament, as a dish, with something laid about it; as, adish garnished with parsley.
GARNISHEE
One who is garnished; a person upon whom garnishment has beenserved in a suit by a creditor against a debtor, such person holdingproperty belonging to the debtor, or owing him money.
GARNISHER
One who, or that which, garnishes.
GARNITURE
That which garnishes; ornamental appendage; embellishment;furniture; dress.The pomp of groves and garniture of fields. Beattie.
GAROOKUH
A small fishing vessel met with in the Persian Gulf.
GAROUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, garum. Sir T. Browne.
GARRAN
See Galloway. [Scot. garron or gerron. Jamieson.]
GARRETED
Protected by turrets. [Obs.] R. Carew.
GARRETEER
One who lives in a garret; a poor author; a literary hack.Macaulay.
GARRETING
Small splinters of stone inserted into the joints of coarsemasonry. Weale.
GARRON
Same as Garran. [Scot.]
GARROT
A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage,in order to compress the arteries of a limb.
GARROTE
A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an ironcollar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life becomeextinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment isinflicted.
GARROTER
One who seizes a person by the throat from behind, with a viewto strangle and rob him.
GARRULITY
Talkativeness; loquacity.
GARRULOUS
Having a loud, harsh note; noisy; -- said of birds; as, thegarrulous roller.
GARRUPA
One of several species of California market fishes, of thegenus Sebastichthys; -- called also rockfish. See Rockfish.
GARTER
Same as Bendlet. Garter fish (Zoรถl.), a fish of the genusLepidopus, having a long, flat body, like the blade of a sword; thescabbard fish.-- Garter king-at-arms, the chief of the official heralds ofEngland, king-at-arms to the Order of the Garter; -- oftenabbreviated to Garter.-- Garter snake (Zoรถl.), one of several harmless American snakes ofthe genus Eutรฆnia, of several species (esp. E. saurita and E.sirtalis); one of the striped snakes; -- so called from itsconspicuous stripes of color.
GARTER STITCH
The simplest stitch in knitting.
GARTH
A hoop or band. [Prov. Eng.]
GARUM
A sauce made of small fish. It was prized by the ancients.
GARVIE
The spart; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock. [Prov.Eng. & Scot.]
GAS ENGINE
A kind of internal-combustion engine (which see) using fixedgas; also, broadly, any internal-combustion engine.
GAS-BURNER
The jet piece of a gas fixture where the gas is burned as itescapes from one or more minute orifices.
GASALIER
A chandelier arranged to burn gas.
GASCOINES
See Gaskins, 1. Lyly.
GASCON
Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons;also, braggart; swaggering.-- n.
GASCONADE
A boast or boasting; a vaunt; a bravado; a bragging;braggodocio. Swift.
GASCONADER
A great boaster; a blusterer.
GASCOYNES
Gaskins. Beau & Fl.
GASEITY
State of being gaseous. [R] Eng. Cyc.
GASELIER
A chandelier arranged to burn gas.
GASH
To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chieflyto incisions in flesh.Grievously gashed or gored to death. Hayward.
GASHFUL
Full of gashes; hideous; frightful. [Obs.] "A gashful, horrid,ugly shape." Gayton.
GASIFICATION
The act or process of converting into gas.
GASIFORM
Having a form of gas; gaseous.
GASIFY
To convert into gas, or an aรซriform fluid, as by theapplication of heat, or by chemical processes.
GASKET
A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely. Sea gasketsare common lines; harbor gaskets are plaited and decorated lines orbands. Called also casket.
GASOLENE
See Gasoline.
GASOLIER
Same as Gasalier.
GASOLINE
A highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained frompetroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal. It is usedin making air gas, and in giving illuminating power to water gas. SeeCarburetor.
GASOMETER
An apparatus for holding and measuring of gas; in gas works, ahuge iron cylinder closed at one end and having the other endimmersed in water, in which it is made to rise or fall, according tothe volume of gas it contains, or the pressure required.
GASOMETRY
The art or practice of measuring gases; also, the science whichtreats of the nature and properties of these elastic fluids. Coxe.
GASOSCOPE
An apparatus for detecting the presence of any dangerous gas,from a gas leak in a coal mine or a dwelling house.
GASP
To emit or utter with gasps; -- with forth, out, away, etc.And with short sobs he gasps away his breath. Dryden.
GASPEREAU
The alewife. [Local, Canada]
GASSERIAN
Relating to Casserio (L. Gasserius), the discover of theGasserian ganglion. Gasserian ganglion (Anat.), a large ganglion, atthe root of the trigeminal, or fifth cranial, nerve.
GASSING
The process of passing cotton goods between two rollers andexposing them to numerous minute jets of gas to burn off the smallfibers; any similar process of singeing.
GASSY
Full of gas; like gas. Hence: [Colloq.] Inflated; full ofboastful or insincere talk.
GAST
To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast. [Obs.]Chaucer. Shak.
GASTER
To gast. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
GASTEROMYCETES
An order of fungi, in which the spores are borne inside a saccalled the peridium, as in the puffballs.
GASTEROPOD
Same as Gastropod.
GASTEROPODA
Same as Gastropoda.
GASTEROPODOUS
Same as Gastropodous.
GASTIGHT
So tightly fitted as to preclude the escape of gas; imperviousto gas.
GASTNESS
See Ghastness. [Obs.]
GASTORNIS
A genus of large eocene birds from the Paris basin.
GASTRAEA
A primeval larval form; a double-walled sac from which,according to the hypothesis of Haeckel, man and all other animals,that in the first stages of their individual evolution pass through atwo-layered structural stage, or gastrula form, must have descended.This idea constitutes the Gastrรฆa theory of Haeckel. See Gastrula.
GASTRALGIA
Pain in the stomach or epigastrium, as in gastric disorders.
GASTRIC
Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the stomach; as, thegastric artery. Gastric digestion (Physiol.), the conversion of thealbuminous portion of food in the stomach into soluble and diffusibleproducts by the solvent action of gastric juice.-- Gastric fever (Med.), a fever attended with prominent gastricsymptoms; -- a name applied to certain forms of typhoid fever; also,to catarrhal inflammation of the stomach attended with fever.-- Gastric juice (Physiol.), a thin, watery fluid, with an acidreaction, secreted by a peculiar set of glands contained in themucous membrane of the stomach. It consists mainly of dilutehydrochloric acid and the ferment pepsin. It is the most importantdigestive fluid in the body, but acts only on proteid foods.-- Gastric remittent fever (Med.), a form of remittent fever withpronounced stomach symptoms.
GASTRILOQUIST
One who appears to speak from his stomach; a ventriloquist.
GASTRILOQUOUS
Ventriloquous. [R.]
GASTRILOQUY
A voice or utterance which appears to proceed from the stomach;ventriloquy.
GASTRITIS
Inflammation of the stomach, esp. of its mucuos membrane.
GASTRO-
A combining form from the Gr. gastrocolic, gastrocele,gastrotomy.
GASTROCNEMIUS
The muscle which makes the greater part of the calf of the leg.
GASTROCOLIC
Pertaining to both the stomach and the colon; as, thegastrocolic, or great, omentum.
GASTRODISC
That part of blastoderm where the hypoblast appears like asmall disk on the inner face of the epibladst.
GASTRODUODENAL
Pertaining to the stomach and duodenum; as, the gastroduodenalartery.
GASTRODUODENITIS
Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum. It is one of the mostfrequent causes of jaundice.
GASTROELYTROTOMY
The operation of cutting into the upper part of the vagina,through the abdomen (without opening the peritoneum), for the purposeof removing a fetus. It is a substitute for the Cรฆsarean operation,and less dangerous.
GASTROENTERIC
Gastrointestinal.
GASTROENTERITIS
Inflammation of the lining membrane of the stomach and theintestines.
GASTROEPIPLOIC
Of or pertaining to the stomach and omentum.
GASTROHEPATIC
Pertaining to the stomach and liver; hepatogastric; as, thegastrohepatic, or lesser, omentum.
GASTROHYSTEROTOMY
Cรฆsarean section. See under Cรฆsarean.
GASTROINTESTINAL
Of or pertaining to the stomach and intestines; gastroenteric.
GASTROLITH
See Crab's eyes, under Crab.
GASTROLOGY
The science which treats of the structure and functions of thestomach; a treatise of the stomach.
GASTROMALACIA
A softening of the coats of the stomach; -- usually a post-morten change.
GASTROMYCES
The fungoid growths sometimes found in the stomach; such asTorula, etc.
GASTROMYTH
One whose voice appears to proceed from the stomach; aventriloquist. [Obs.]
GASTRONOMIST
A gastromomer.
GASTRONOMY
The art or science of good eating; epicurism; the art of goodcheer.
GASTROPHRENIC
Pertaining to the stomach and diaphragm; as, the gastrophrenicligament.
GASTROPNEUMATIC
Pertaining to the alimentary canal and air passages, and to thecavities connected with them; as, the gastropneumatic mucuosmembranes.
GASTROPOD
One of the Gastropoda. [Written also gasteropod.]
GASTROPODA
One of the classes of Mollusca, of great extent. It includesmost of the marine spiral shells, and the land and fresh-watersnails. They generally creep by means of a flat, muscular disk, orfoot, on the ventral side of the body. The head usually bears one ortwo pairs of tentacles. See Mollusca. [Written also Gasteropoda.]
GASTROPODOUS
Of or pertaining to the Gastropoda.
GASTRORAPHY
The operation of sewing up wounds of the abdomen. Quincy.
GASTROSCOPE
An instrument for viewing or examining the interior of thestomach.
GASTROSCOPIC
Of or pertaining to gastroscopy.
GASTROSCOPY
Examination of the abdomen or stomach, as with the gastroscope.
GASTROSPLENIC
Pertaining to the stomach and spleen; as, the gastrosplenicligament.
GASTROSTEGE
One of the large scales on the belly of a serpent.
GASTROSTOMY
The operation of making a permanent opening into the stomach,for the introduction of food.
GASTROTOMY
A cutting into, or opening of, the abdomen or the stomach.
GASTROTRICHA
A group of small wormlike animals, having cilia on the ventralside. The group is regarded as an ancestral or synthetic one, relatedto rotifers and annelids.
GASTROTROCHA
A form of annelid larva having cilia on the ventral side.
GASTROVASCULAR
Having the structure, or performing the functions, both ofdigestive and circulatory organs; as, the gastrovascular cavity ofcoelenterates.
GASTRULA
An embryonic form having its origin in the invagination orpushing in of the wall of the planula or blastula (the blastosphere)on one side, thus giving rise to a double-walled sac, with oneopening or mouth (the blastopore) which leads into the cavity (thearchenteron) lined by the inner wall (the hypoblast). See Illust.under Invagination. In a more general sense, an ideal stage inembryonic development. See Gastrรฆa.-- a.
GASTRULATION
The process of invagination, in embryonic development, by whicha gastrula is formed.
GASTRURA
See Stomatopoda.
GASTRUROUS
Pertaining to the Gastrura.
GAT
imp. of Get. [Obs.]
GAT-TOOTHED
Goat-toothed; having a lickerish tooth; lustful; wanton. [Obs.]
GATCH
Plaster as used in Persian architecture and decorative art.
GATE
The places which command the entrances or access; hence, placeof vantage; power; might.The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Matt. xvi. 18.
GATED
Having gates. Young.
GATEHOUSE
A house connected or associated with a gate.
GATELESS
Having no gate.
GATEMAN
A gate keeper; a gate tender.
GATEWAY
A passage through a fence or wall; a gate; also, a frame, arch,etc., in which a gate in hung, or a structure at an entrance or gatedesigned for ornament or defense.
GATEWISE
In the manner of a gate.Three circles of stones set up gatewise. Fuller.
GATHER
To bring together, or nearer together, in masonry, as where thewidth of a fireplace is rapidly diminished to the width of the flue,or the like.
GATHERABLE
Capable of being gathered or collected; deducible frompremises. [R.] Godwin.
GATHERER
An attachment for making gathers in the cloth.
GATHERING
Assembling; collecting; used for gathering or concentrating.Gathering board (Bookbinding), a table or board on which signaturesare gathered or assembled, to form a book. Knight.-- Gathering coal, a lighted coal left smothered in embers overnight, about which kindling wood is gathered in the morning.-- Gathering hoop, a hoop used by coopers to draw together the endsof barrel staves, to allow the hoops to be slipped over them.-- Gathering peat. (a) A piece of peat used as a gathering coal, topreserve a fire. (b) In Scotland, a fiery peat which was sent roundby the Borderers as an alarm signal, as the fiery cross was by theHighlanders.
GATLING GUN
An American machine gun, consisting of a cluster of barrelswhich, being revolved by a crank, are automatically loaded and fired.
GATTEN TREE
A name given to the small trees called guelder-rose (ViburnumOpulus), cornel (Cornus sanguinea), and spindle tree (EuonymusEuropรฆus).
GAUCHE
Winding; twisted; warped; -- applied to curves and surfaces.
GAUCHERIE
An awkward action; clumsiness; boorishness.
GAUCHO
On of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-Americandescent. They live mostly by rearing cattle.
GAUD
To sport or keep festival. [Obs.] "Gauding with his familiars." [Obs.] Sir T. North.
GAUD-DAY
See Gaudy, a feast.
GAUDERY
Finery; ornaments; ostentatious display. [R.] "Tarnishedgaudery." Dryden.
GAUDFUL
Joyful; showy. [Obs.]
GAUDILY
In a gaudy manner. Guthrie.
GAUDINESS
The quality of being gaudy. Whitlock.
GAUDISH
Gaudy. "Gaudish ceremonies." Bale.
GAUDLESS
Destitute of ornament. [R.]
GAUDY
One of the large beads in the rosary at which the paternosteris recited. [Obs.] Gower.
GAUDYGREEN
Light green. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
GAUFFER
To plait, crimp, or flute; to goffer, as lace. See Goffer.
GAUFFERING
A mode of plaiting or fluting. Gauffering iron, a kind offluting iron for fabrics.-- Gauffering press (Flower Manuf.), a press for crimping the leavesand petals into shape.
GAUFFRE
A gopher, esp. the pocket gopher.
GAUGE
To measure the dimensions of, or to test the accuracy of theform of, as of a part of a gunlock.The vanes nicely gauged on each side. Derham.
GAUGEABLE
Capable of being gauged.
GAUGED
Tested or measured by, or conformed to, a gauge. Gauged brick,brick molded, rubbed, or cut to an exact size and shape, for archesor ornamental work.-- Gauged mortar. See Gauge stuff, under Gauge, n.
GAUGER
One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertainthe contents of casks.
GAUGER-SHIP
The office of a gauger.
GAUGING ROD
See Gauge rod, under Gauge, n.
GAULISH
Pertaining to ancient France, or Gaul; Gallic. [R.]
GAULT
A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England,between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period.
GAULTHERIA
A genus of ericaceous shrubs with evergreen foliage, and,often, edible berries. It includes the American winter-green(Gaultheria procumbens), and the larger-fruited salal of NorthwesternAmerica (Gaultheria Shallon).
GAUNT
Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinchedand grim. "The gaunt mastiff." Pope.A mysterious but visible pestilence, striding gaunt and fleshlessacross our land. Nichols.
GAUNTLET
See Gantlet.
GAUNTLETTED
Wearing a gauntlet.
GAUNTLY
In a gaunt manner; meagerly.
GAUR
An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris), of largesize and an untamable disposition. [Spelt also gour.]
GAURE
To gaze; to stare. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GAUSS
The C.G.S. unit of density of magnetic field, equal to a fieldof one line of force per square centimeter, being thus adopted as aninternational unit at Paris in 1900; sometimes used as a unit ofintensity of magnetic field. It was previously suggested as a unit ofmagnetomotive force.
GAUSSAGE
The intensity of a magnetic field expressed in C.G.S. units, orgausses.
GAUZE
A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk;also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze.Gauze dresser, one employed in stiffening gauze.
GAUZINESS
The quality of being gauzy; flimsiness. Ruskin.
GAUZY
Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze.
GAVAGE
Forced feeding (as of poultry or infants) by means of a tubepassed through the mouth down to the stomach.
GAVE
imp. of Give.
GAVEL
A gable. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
GAVELET
An ancient special kind of cessavit used in Kent and London forthe recovery of rent. [Obs.]
GAVELKIND
A tenure by which land descended from the father to all hissons in equal portions, and the land of a brother, dying withoutissue, descended equally to his brothers. It still prevails in thecounty of Kent. Cowell.
GAVELOCHE
Same as Gavelock.
GAVERICK
The European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus). [Prov. Eng.]
GAVIAE
The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns.
GAVIAL
A large Asiatic crocodilian (Gavialis Gangeticus); -- calledalso nako, and Gangetic crocodile.
GAVOT
A kind of difficult dance; a dance tune, the air of which hastwo brisk and lively, yet dignified, strains in common time, eachplayed twice over. [Written also gavotte.]
GAWBY
A baby; a dunce. [Prov. Eng.]
GAWK
To act like a gawky.
GAWKY
Foolish and awkward; clumsy; clownish; as, gawky behavior.-- n. A fellow who is awkward from being overgrown, or fromstupidity, a gawk.
GAWN
A small tub or lading vessel. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson.
GAWNTREE
See Gauntree.
GAY
An ornament [Obs.] L'Estrange.
GAYAL
A Southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis).
GAYDIANG
A vessel of Anam, with two or three masts, lofty triangularsails, and in construction somewhat resembling a Chinese junk.
GAYLEY PROCESS
The process of removing moisture from the blast of an ironblast furnace by reducing its temperature so far that it will notremain suspended as vapor in the blast current, but will be depositedas snow in the cooling apparatus. The resultant uniformly dehydratedblast effects great economy in fuel consumption, and promotesregularity of furnace operation, and certainty of furnace control.
GAYLUSSITE
A yellowish white, translucent mineral, consisting of thecarbonates of lime and soda, with water.
GAYNE
To avail. [Obs.]
GAYNESS
Gayety; finery. [R.]
GAYSOME
Full of gayety. Mir. for Mag.
GAYTRE
The dogwood tree. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GAZE
To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look witheagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or withstudious attention.Why stand ye gazing up into heaven Acts i. 11.
GAZEEBO
A summerhouse so situated as to command an extensive prospect.[Colloq.]
GAZEFUL
Gazing. [R.] Spenser.
GAZEHOUND
A hound that pursues by the sight rather than by the scent. SirW. Scott.
GAZEL
The black currant; also, the wild plum. [Prov. Eng.]
GAZELLE
One of several small, swift, elegantly formed species ofantelope, of the genus Gazella, esp. G. dorcas; -- called alsoalgazel, corinne, korin, and kevel. The gazelles are celebrated forthe luster and soft expression of their eyes. [Written also gazel.]
GAZEMENT
View. [Obs.] Spenser.
GAZER
One who gazes.
GAZET
A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or oneand a half cents. [Obs.]
GAZETTE
A newspaper; a printed sheet published periodically; esp., theofficial journal published by the British government, and containinglegal and state notices.
GAZINGSTOCK
A person or thing gazed at with scorn or abhorrence; an objectof curiosity or contempt. Bp. Hall.
GAZOGENE
A portable apparatus for making soda water or aรซrated liquidson a small scale. Knight.
GAZON
One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and thefaces of earthworks.
GE-
An Anglo-Saxon prefix. See Y-.
GEAL
To congeal. [Obs. or Scot.]
GEAN
A species of cherry tree common in Europe (Prunus avium); also,the fruit, which is usually small and dark in color.
GEANTICLINAL
An upward bend or flexure of a considerable portion of theearth's crust, resulting in the formation of a class of mountainelevations called anticlinoria; -- opposed to geosynclinal.
GEAR
See 1st Jeer (b).
GEARING
The parts by which motion imparted to one portion of an engineor machine is transmitted to another, considered collectively; as,the valve gearing of locomotive engine; belt gearing; esp., a trainof wheels for transmitting and varying motion in machinery.Frictional gearing. See under Frictional.-- Gearing chain, an endless chain transmitted motion from onesprocket wheel to another. See Illust. of Chain wheel.-- Spur gearing, gearing in which the teeth or cogs are ranged roundeither the concave or the convex surface (properly the latter) of acylindrical wheel; -- for transmitting motion between parallelshafts, etc.
GEASON
Rare; wonderful. [Obs.] Spenser.
GEAT
The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into amold in casting. [Written also git, gate.]
GECARCINIAN
A land crab of the genus Gecarcinus, or of allied genera.
GECK
To jeer; to show contempt. Sir W. Scott.
GECKO
Any lizard of the family Geckonidรฆ. The geckoes are small,carnivorous, mostly nocturnal animals with large eyes and vertical,elliptical pupils. Their toes are generally expanded, and furnishedwith adhesive disks, by which they can run over walls and ceilings.They are numerous in warm countries, and a few species are found inEurope and the United States. See Wall gecko, Fanfoot.
GECKOTIAN
A gecko.
GEE
To turn to the off side, or from the driver (i.e., in theUnited States, to the right side); -- said of cattle, or a team; usedmost frequently in the imperative, often with off, by drivers ofoxen, in directing their teams, and opposed to haw, or hoi. [Writtenalso jee.]
GEESE
pl. of Goose.
GEEST
Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin.R. Jameson.
GEET
Jet. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GEEZ
The original native name for the ancient Ethiopic language orpeople. See Ethiopic.
GEEZER
A queer old fellow; an old chap; an old woman. [Contemptuous,Slang or Dial.]
GEHENNA
The valley of Hinnom, near Jerusalem, where some of theIsraelites sacrificed their children to Moloch, which, on thisaccount, was afterward regarded as a place of abomination, and made areceptacle for all the refuse of the city, perpetual fires being keptup in order to prevent pestilential effluvia. In the New Testamentthe name is transferred, by an easy metaphor, to Hell.The pleasant valley of Hinnom. Tophet thence And black Gehennacalled, the type of Hell. Milton.
GEIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, earthy or vegetable mold. Geicacid. (Chem.) See Humin.
GEIN
See Humin.
GEISHA
A Japanese singing and dancing girl.
GEISSLER TUBE
A glass tube provided with platinum electrodes, and containingsome gas under very low tension, which becomes luminous when anelectrical discharge is passed through it; -- so called from the nameof a noted maker in germany. It is called also Plรผcker tube, from theGerman physicist who devised it.
GEITONOGAMY
Fertilization of flowers by pollen from other flowers on thesame plant.
GELABLE
Capable of being congealed; capable of being converted intojelly.
GELADA
A baboon (Gelada Ruppelli) of Abyssinia, remarkable for thelength of the hair on the neck and shoulders of the adult male.
GELASTIC
Pertaining to laughter; used in laughing. "Gelastic muscles."Sir T. Browne.
GELATIFICATION
The formation of gelatin.
GELATIGENOUS
Producing, or yielding, gelatin; gelatiniferous; as, thegelatigeneous tissues.
GELATINATE
To convert into gelatin, or into a substance resembling jelly.
GELATINATION
The act of process of converting into gelatin, or a substancelike jelly.
GELATINE
Same as Gelatin.
GELATINIFEROUS
Yielding gelatin on boiling with water; capable ofgelatination.
GELATINIFORM
Having the form of gelatin.
GELATINIZATION
Same as Gelatination.
GELATINIZE
To coat, or otherwise treat, with gelatin.
GELATINOUS
Of the nature and consistence of gelatin or the jelly;resembling jelly; viscous.
GELATION
The process of becoming solid by cooling; a cooling andsolidifying.
GELD
Money; tribute; compensation; ransom.[Obs.]
GELDABLE
Capable of being gelded.
GELDER
One who gelds or castrates.
GELDER-ROSE
Same as Guelder-rose.
GELDING
A castrated animal; -- usually applied to a horse, but formerlyused also of the human male.They went down both into the water, Philip and the gelding, andPhilip baptized him. Wyclif (Acts viii. 38).
GELID
Cold; very cold; frozen. "Gelid founts." Thompson.
GELIDITY
The state of being gelid.
GELIDLY
In a gelid manner; coldly.
GELIDNESS
The state of being gelid; gelidity.
GELLY
Jelly. [Obs.] Spenser.
GELOSCOPY
Divination by means of laughter.
GELOSE
An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate, found in Gelidium, agar-agar,and other seaweeds.
GELSEMIC
Gelseminic.
GELSEMINE
An alkaloid obtained from the yellow jasmine (Gelsemiumsempervirens), as a bitter white semicrystalline substance; -- calledalso gelsemia.
GELSEMINIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, the yellow jasmine (Gelsemiumsempervirens); as, gelseminic acid, a white crystalline substanceresembling esculin.
GELSEMIUM
A genus of climbing plants. The yellow (false) jasmine(Gelsemium sempervirens) is a native of the Southern United States.It has showy and deliciously fragrant flowers.
GELT
Trubute, tax. [Obs.]All these the king granted unto them . . . free from all gelts andpayments, in a most full and ample manner. Fuller.
GEM
A bud.From the joints of thy prolific stem A swelling knot is raised calleda gem. Denham.
GEMARA
The second part of the Talmud, or the commentary on the Mishna(which forms the first part or text).
GEMARIC
Pertaining to the Gemara.
GEMARIST
One versed in the Gemara, or adhering to its teachings.
GEMEL
Coupled; paired. Bars gemel (Her.), two barrulets placed nearand parallel to each other.
GEMELLIPA-ROUS
Producing twins. [R.] Bailey.
GEMINAL
A pair. [Obs.] Drayton.
GEMINATE
In pairs or twains; two together; binate; twin; as, geminateflowers. Gray.
GEMINATION
A doubling; duplication; repetition. [R.] Boyle.
GEMINI
A constellation of the zodiac, containing the two bright starsCastor and Pollux; also, the third sign of the zodiac, which the sunenters about May 20th.
GEMINIFLOROUS
Having the flowers arranged in pairs.
GEMINOUS
Double; in pairs. Sir T. Browne.
GEMINY
Twins; a pair; a couple. [Obs.] Shak.
GEMITORES
A division of birds including the true pigeons.
GEMMA
A leaf bud, as distinguished from a flower bud.
GEMMACEOUS
Of or pertaining to gems or to gemmรฆ; of the nature of, orresembling, gems or gemmรฆ.
GEMMARY
Of or pertaining to gems.
GEMMATE
Having buds; reproducing by buds.
GEMMATED
Having buds; adorned with gems or jewels.
GEMMATION
The formation of a new individual, either animal or vegetable,by a process of budding; an asexual method of reproduction;gemmulation; gemmiparity. See Budding.
GEMMEOUS
Pertaining to gems; of the nature of gems; resembling gems.Pennant.
GEMMIFEROUS
Producing gems or buds; (Biol.)
GEMMIFICATION
The production of a bud or gem.
GEMMIFLORATE
Having flowers like buds.
GEMMINESS
The state or quality of being gemmy; spruceness; smartness.
GEMMIPARITY
Reproduction by budding; gemmation. See Budding.
GEMMIPAROUS
Producing buds; reproducing by buds. See Gemmation, 1.
GEMMOSITY
The quality or characteristics of a gem or jewel. [Obs.]Bailey.
GEMMULATION
See Gemmation.
GEMMULIFEROUS
Bearing or producing gemmules or buds.
GEMOTE
A meeting; -- used in combination, as, Witenagemote, anassembly of the wise men.
GEMS
The chamois.
GEMS-HORN
An organ stop with conical tin pipes.
GEMSBOK
A South African antelope (Oryx Capensis), having long, sharp,nearly straight horns.
GEMUL
A small South American deer (Furcifer Chilensis), with simpleforked horns. [Written also guemul.]
GENAPPE
A worsted yarn or cord of peculiar smoothness, used in themanufacture of braid, fringe, etc. Simmonds.
GENDARME
One of a body of heavy cavalry. [Obs.] [France]
GENDARMERY
The body of gendarmes.
GENDER
A classification of nouns, primarily according to sex; andsecondarily according to some fancied or imputed quality associatedwith sex.Gender is a grammatical distinction and applies to words only. Sex isnatural distinction and applies to living objects. R. Morris.
GENDERLESS
Having no gender.
GENEAGENESIS
Alternate generation. See under Generation.
GENEALOGIC
Genealogical.
GENEALOGICAL
Of or pertaining to genealogy; as, a genealogical table;genealogical order.-- Gen`e*a*log"ic*al*ly, adv. Genealogical tree, a family lineage orgenealogy drawn out under the form of a tree and its branches.
GENEALOGIST
One who traces genealogies or the descent of persons orfamilies.
GENEALOGIZE
To investigate, or relate the history of, descents.
GENEARCH
The chief of a family or tribe.
GENERA
See Genus.
GENERABILITY
Capability of being generated. Johnstone.
GENERABLE
Capable of being generated or produced. Bentley.
GENERAL
One of the chief military officers of a government or country;the commander of an army, of a body of men not less than a brigade.In European armies, the highest military rank next below fieldmarshal.
GENERALIA
Generalities; general terms. J. S. Mill.
GENERALISSIMO
The chief commander of an army; especially, the commander inchief of an army consisting of two or more grand divisions underseparate commanders; -- a title used in most foreign countries.
GENERALIZABLE
Capable of being generalized, or reduced to a general form ofstatement, or brought under a general rule.Extreme cases are . . . not generalizable. Coleridge
GENERALIZE
To form into a genus; to view objects in their relations to agenus or class; to take general or comprehensive views.
GENERALIZED
Comprising structural characters which are separated in morespecialized forms; synthetic; as, a generalized type.
GENERALIZER
One who takes general or comprehensive views. Tyndall.
GENERALNESS
The condition or quality of being general; frequency;commonness. Sir P. Sidney.
GENERALTY
Generality. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
GENERANT
Generative; producing; esp. (Geom.),
GENERATE
To trace out, as a line, figure, or solid, by the motion of apoint or a magnitude of inferior order.
GENERATION
The formation or production of any geometrical magnitude, as aline, a surface, a solid, by the motion, in accordance with amathematical law, of a point or a magnitude; as, the generation of aline or curve by the motion of a point, of a surface by a line, asphere by a semicircle, etc.
GENERATIVE
Having the power of generating, propagating, originating, orproducing. "That generative particle." Bentley.
GENERATOR
The principal sound or sounds by which others are produced; thefundamental note or root of the common chord; -- called alsogenerating tone.
GENERATRIX
That which generates; the point, or the mathematical magnitude,which, by its motion, generates another magnitude, as a line,surface, or solid; -- called also describent.
GENERICALLY
With regard to a genus, or an extensive class; as, an animalgenerically distinct from another, or two animals or plantsgenerically allied.
GENERICALNESS
The quality of being generic.
GENERIFICATION
The act or process of generalizing.Out of this the universal is elaborated by generification. Sir W.Hamilton.
GENESEE EPOCH
The closing subdivision of the Hamilton period in the AmericanDevonian system; -- so called because the formations of this periodcrop out in Genesee, New York.
GENESIAL
Of or relating to generation.
GENESIOLGY
The doctrine or science of generation.
GENESIS
Same as Generation.
GENET
A small-sized, well-proportioned, Spanish horse; a jennet.Shak.
GENETHLIAC
Pertaining to nativities; calculated by astrologers; showingposition of stars at one's birth. Howell.
GENETHLIACAL
Genethliac.
GENETHLIACS
The science of calculating nativities, or predicting the futureevents of life from the stars which preside at birth. Jhonson.
GENETHLIALOGY
Divination as to the destinies of one newly born; the act orart of casting nativities; astrology.
GENETHLIATIC
One who calculates nativities. Sir W. Drummond.
GENETIC
Same as Genetical.
GENETICAL
Pertaining to, concerned with, or determined by, the genesis ofanything, or its natural mode of production or development.This historical, genetical method of viewing prior systems ofphilosophy. Hare.
GENETICALLY
In a genetical manner.
GENEVA
The chief city of Switzerland. Geneva Bible, a translation ofthe Bible into English, made and published by English refugees inGeneva (Geneva, 1560; London, 1576). It was the first English Bibleprinted in Roman type instead of the ancient black letter, the firstwhich recognized the division into verses, and the first whichommited the Apocrypha. In form it was a small quarto, and soonsuperseded the large folio of Cranmer's translation. Called alsoGenevan Bible.-- Geneva convention (Mil.), an agreement made by representatives ofthe great continental powers at Geneva and signed in 1864,establishing new and more humane regulation regarding the treatmentof the sick and wounded and the status of those who minister to themin war. Ambulances and military hospitals are made neutral, and thiscondition affects physicians, chaplains, nurses, and the ambulancecorps. Great Britain signed the convention in 1865.-- Geneva cross (Mil.), a red Greek cross on a white ground; -- theflag and badge adopted in the Geneva convention.
GENEVAN
Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevese.
GENEVANISM
Strict Calvinism. Bp. Montagu.
GENEVESE
Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevan.-- n. sing. & pl.
GENIAL
Same as Genian.
GENIALITY
The quality of being genial; sympathetic cheerfulness; warmthof disposition and manners.
GENIALNESS
The quality of being genial.
GENIAN
Of or pertaining to the chin; mental; as, the genianprominence.
GENICULATE
Bent abruptly at an angle, like the knee when bent; as, ageniculate stem; a geniculate ganglion; a geniculate twin crystal.
GENICULATED
Same as Geniculate.
GENIE
See Genius.
GENIO
A man of a particular turn of mind. [R.] Tatler.
GENIOHYOID
Of or pertaining to the chin and hyoid bone; as, the geniohyoidmuscle.
GENIPAP
The edible fruit of a West Indian tree (Genipa Americana) ofthe order Rubiaceรฆ. It is oval in shape, as a large as a smallorange, of a pale greenish color, and with dark purple juice.
GENISTA
A genus of plants including the common broom of Western Europe.
GENITAL
Pertaining to generation, or to the generative organs. Genitalcord (Anat.), a cord developed in the fetus by the union of portionsof the Wolffian and Mรผllerian ducts and giving rise to parts of theurogenital passages in both sexes.
GENITALS
The organs of generation; the sexual organs; the private parts.
GENITING
A species of apple that ripens very early. Bacon.
GENITIVAL
Possessing genitive from; pertaining to, or derived from, thegenitive case; as, a genitival adverb.-- Gen`i*ti"val*ly, adv.
GENITIVE
Of or pertaining to that case (as the second case of Latin andGreek nouns) which expresses source or possession. It corresponds tothe possessive case in English.
GENITOCRURAL
Pertaining to the genital organs and the thigh; -- appliedespecially to one of the lumbar nerves.
GENITOR
The genitals. [Obs.] Holland.
GENITOURINARY
See Urogenital.
GENITURE
Generation; procreation; birth. Dryden.
GENOA CAKE
A rich glazed cake, with almonds, pistachios, filberts, orother nuts; also, a rich currant cake with almonds on the top.
GENOESE
Of or pertaining to Genoa, a city of Italy.-- n. sing. & pl.
GENOUILLERE
A metal plate covering the knee.
GENRE
A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, whichillustrates everyday life and manners.
GENS
A minor subdivision of a tribe, among American aborigines. Itincludes those who have a common descent, and bear the same totem.
GENTEELISH
Somewhat genteel.
GENTEELLY
In a genteel manner.
GENTEELNESS
The quality of being genteel.
GENTIAN
Any one of a genus (Gentiana) of herbaceous plants withopposite leaves and a tubular four- or five-lobed corolla, usuallyblue, but sometimes white, yellow, or red. See Illust. of Capsule.
GENTIANACEOUS
Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Gentianaceรฆ) ofwhich the gentian is the type.
GENTIANELLA
A kind of blue color. Johnson.
GENTIANIC
Pertaining to or derived from the gentian; as, gentianic acid.
GENTIANINE
A bitter, crystallizable substance obtained from gentian.
GENTIANOSE
A crystallizable, sugarlike substance, with a slightly sweetishtaste, obtained from the gentian.
GENTIL
Gentle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GENTILE
One of a non-Jewish nation; one neither a Jew nor a Christian;a worshiper of false gods; a heathen.
GENTILE-FALCON
See Falcon-gentil.
GENTILESSE
Gentleness; courtesy; kindness; nobility. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GENTILISH
Heathenish; pagan.
GENTILIZE
To render gentile or gentlemanly; as, to gentilize yourunworthy sones. [R.] Sylvester.
GENTILLY
In a gentle or hoble manner; frankly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GENTIOPIKRIN
A bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as aglucoside, and obtained from the gentian.
GENTISIN
A tasteless, yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from thegentian; -- called also gentianin.
GENTLE
A dipterous larva used as fish bait.
GENTLE-HEARTED
Having a kind or gentle disposition. Shak.-- Gen"tle-heart`ed*ness, n.
GENTLEMAN
One who bears arms, but has no title.
GENTLEMANHOOD
The qualities or condition of a gentleman. [R.] Thackeray.
GENTLEMANLINESS
The state of being gentlemanly; gentlemanly conduct or manners.
GENTLEMANSHIP
The carriage or quality of a gentleman.
GENTLENESS
The quality or state of being gentle, well-born, mild,benevolent, docile, etc.; gentility; softness of manners,disposition, etc.; mildness.
GENTLESHIP
The deportment or conduct of a gentleman. [Obs.] Ascham.
GENTLESSE
Gentilesse; gentleness. [Obs.]
GENTLY
In a gentle manner.My mistress gently chides the fault I made. Dryden.
GENTOO
A native of Hindostan; a Hindoo. [Archaic]
GENTY
Neat; trim. [Scot.] Burns.
GENUFLECT
To bend the knee, as in worship.
GENUFLECTION
The act of bending the knee, particularly in worship. Bp.Stillingfleet.
GENUINE
Belonging to, or proceeding from, the original stock; native;hence, not counterfeit, spurious, false, or adulterated; authentic;real; natural; true; pure; as, a genuine text; a genuine production;genuine materials. "True, genuine night." Dryden.
GENUS
A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; aclass more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactlydivided class; one of the five predicable conceptions, or sorts ofterms.
GENYS
See Conys.
GEOCENTRICALLY
In a geocentric manner.
GEOCHEMISTRY
The study of the chemical composition of, and of actual orpossible chemical changes in, the crust of the earth. --Ge`o*chem"ic*al (#), a. --Ge`o*chem"ist (#), n.
GEOCRONITE
A lead-gray or grayish blue mineral with a metallic luster,consisting of sulphur, antimony, and lead, with a small proportion ofarsenic.
GEODEPHAGOUS
Living in the earth; -- applied to the ground beetles.
GEODESIC
A geodetic line or curve.
GEODESIST
One versed in geodesy.
GEODESY
That branch of applied mathematics which determines, by meansof observations and measurements, the figures and areas of largeportions of the earth's surface, or the general figure anddimenshions of the earth; or that branch of surveying in which thecurvature of the earth is taken into account, as in the surveys ofStates, or of long lines of coast.
GEODETICALLY
In a geodetic manner; according to geodesy.
GEODETICS
Same as Geodesy.
GEODIFEROUS
Producing geodes; containing geodes.
GEODUCK
A gigantic clam (Glycimeris generosa) of the Pacific coast ofNorth America, highly valued as an article of food.
GEOGNOSIS
Knowledge of the earth. [R.] G. Eliot.
GEOGNOST
One versed in geognosy; a geologist. [R.]
GEOGNOSY
That part of geology which treats of the materials of theearth's structure, and its general exterior and interiorconstitution.
GEOGONY
The branch of science which treats of the formation of theearth.
GEOGRAPHER
One versed in geography.
GEOGRAPHICALLY
In a geographical manner or method; according to geography.
GEOLATRY
The worship of the earth. G. W. Cox. The Geological Series.
GEOLOGICALLY
In a geological manner.
GEOLOGIST
One versed in the science of geology.
GEOLOGIZE
To study geology or make geological investigations in thefield; to discourse as a geologist.During midsummer geologized a little in Shropshire. Darwin.
GEOMALISM
The tendency of an organism to respond, during its growth, tothe force of gravitation.
GEOMANCER
One who practices, or is versed in, geomancy.
GEOMANCY
A kind of divination by means of figures or lines, formed bylittle dots or points, originally on the earth, and latterly onpaper.
GEOMETER
Any species of geometrid moth; a geometrid.
GEOMETRAL
Pertaining to geometry. [Obs.]
GEOMETRICALLY
According to the rules or laws of geometry.
GEOMETRICIAN
One skilled in geometry; a geometer; a mathematician.
GEOMETRID
Pertaining or belonging to the Geometridรฆ.
GEOMETRIZE
To investigate or apprehend geometrical quantities or laws; tomake geometrical constructions; to proceed in accordance with theprinciples of geometry.Nature geometrizeth, and observeth order in all things. Sir T.Browne.
GEOPHAGISM
The act or habit of eating earth. See Dirt eating, under Dirt.Dunglison.
GEOPHAGIST
One who eats earth, as dirt, clay, chalk, etc.
GEOPHAGOUS
Earth-eating.
GEOPHILA
The division of Mollusca which includes the land snails andslugs.
GEOPONICS
The art or science of cultivating the earth; agriculture.Evelin.
GEORAMA
A hollow globe on the inner surface of which a map of the worldis depicted, to be examined by one standing inside.
GEORDIE
A name given by miners to George Stephenson's safety lamp.Raymond.
GEORGE NOBLE
A gold noble of the time of Henry VIII. See Noble, n.
GEORGIAN
A native of, or dweller in, Georgia.
GEORGIAN ARCHITECTURE
British or British colonial architecture of the period of thefour Georges, especially that of the period before 1800.
GEORGIC
A rural poem; a poetical composition on husbandry, containingrules for cultivating lands, etc.; as, the Georgics of Virgil.
GEORGIUM SIDUS
The planet Uranus, so named by its discoverer, Sir W. Herschel.
GEOSCOPY
Knowledge of the earth, ground, or soil, obtained byinspection. Chambers.
GEOSELENIC
Pertaining to the earth and moon; belonging to the joint actionor mutual relations of the earth and moon; as, geoselenic phenomena.
GEOSTATIC
Relating to the pressure exerted by earth or similar substance.Geostatic arch, an arch having a form adapted to sustain pressuresimilar to that exerted by earth. Rankine.
GEOSYNCLINAL
the downward bend or subsidence of the earth's crust, whichallows of the gradual accumulation of sediment, and hence forms thefirst step in the making of a mountain range; -- opposed togeanticlinal.
GEOTHERMOMETER
A thermometer specially constructed for measuring tempereturesat a depth below the surface of the ground.
GEOTIC
Belonging to earth; terrestrial. [Obs.] Bailey.
GEOTROPIC
Relating to, or showing, geotropism.
GEOTROPISM
A disposition to turn or incline towards the earth; theinfluence of gravity in determining the direction of growth of anorgan.
GEPHYREA
An order of marine Annelida, in which the body is imperfectly,or not at all, annulated externally, and is mostly without setรฆ.
GEPHYREAN
Belonging to the Gephyrea.-- n. One of the Gerphyrea.
GEPHYREOID
Gephyrean.
GEPOUND
See Gipoun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GERAH
A small coin and weight; 1-20th of a shekel.
GERANIACEOUS
Of or pertaining to a natural order of pants (Geraniaceรฆ) whichincludes the genera Geranium, Pelargonium, and many others.
GERANIUM
A genus of plants having a beaklike tours or receptacle, aroundwhich the seed capsules are arranged, and membranous projections, orstipules, at the joints. Most of the species have showy flowers and apungent odor. Called sometimes crane's-bill.
GERANT
The manager or acting partner of a company, joint-stockassociation, etc.
GERBE
A kind of ornamental firework. Farrow.
GERBOA
The jerboa.
GERE
Gear. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GERENT
Bearing; carrying. [Obs.] Bailey.
GERFALCON
See Gyrfalcon.
GERFUL
Changeable; capricious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GERLIND
A salmon returning from the sea the second time. [Prov. Eng.]
GERM
That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of afetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form underwhich an organism appears.In the entire process in which a new being originates . . . twodistinct classes of action participate; namely, the act of generationby which the germ is produced; and the act of development, by whichthat germ is evolved into the complete organism. Carpenter.
GERM CELL
A cell, of either sex, directly concerned in the production ofa new organism.
GERM PLASM
See Plasmogen, and Idioplasm.
GERM THEORY
The theory that living organisms can be produced only by thedevelopment of living germs. Cf. Biogenesis, Abiogenesis.
GERMAIN
See Germane.
GERMAN
Nearly related; closely akin.Wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion. Shak.Brother german. See Brother german.-- Cousins german. See the Note under Cousin.
GERMANDER
A plant of the genus Teucrium (esp. Teucrium Chamรฆdrys or wallgermander), mintlike herbs and low shrubs. American germander,Teucrium Canadense.-- Germander chickweed, Veronica agrestis.-- Water germander, Teucrium Scordium.-- Wood germander, Teucrium Scorodonia.
GERMANE
Literally, near akin; hence, closely allied; appropriate orfitting; relevant.The phrase would be more germane to the matter. Shak.[An amendment] must be germane. Barclay (Digest).
GERMANIC
Pertaining to, or containing, germanium.
GERMANIUM
A rare element, recently discovered (1885), in a silver ore(argyrodite) at Freiberg. It is a brittle, silver-white metal,chemically intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, resemblestin, and is in general identical with the predicted ekasilicon.Symbol Ge. Atomic weight 72.3.
GERMANIZATION
The act of Germanizing. M. Arnold.
GERMANIZE
To make German, or like what is distinctively German; as, toGermanize a province, a language, a society.
GERMARIUM
An organ in which the ova are developed in certain Turbellaria.
GERMEN
See Germ.
GERMICIDAL
Germicide.
GERMICIDE
Destructive to germs; -- applied to any agent which has adestructive action upon living germs, particularly bacteria, orbacterial germs, which are considered the cause of many infectiousdiseases.-- n.
GERMINAL
Pertaining or belonging to a germ; as, the germinal vesicle.Germinal layers (Biol.), the two layers of cells, the ectoblast andentoblast, which form respectively the outer covering and inner wallof the gastrula. A third layer of cells, the mesoblast, which isformed later and lies between these two, is sometimes included.-- Germinal membrane. (Biol.) Same as Blastoderm.-- Germinal spot (Biol.), the nucleolus of the ovum.-- Germinal vesicle, (Biol.) , the nucleus of the ovum of animals.
GERMINANT
Sprouting; sending forth germs or buds.
GERMINATE
To sprout; to bud; to shoot; to begin to vegetate, as a plantor its seed; to begin to develop, as a germ. Bacon.
GERMINATION
The process of germinating; the beginning of vegetation orgrowth in a seed or plant; the first development of germs, eitheranimal or vegetable. Germination apparatus, an apparatus for maltinggrain.
GERMINATIVE
Pertaining to germination; having power to bud or develop.Germinative spot, Germinative vesicle. (Biol.) Same as Germinal spot,Germinal vesicle, under Germinal.
GERMIPARITY
Reproduction by means of germs.
GERMLESS
Without germs.
GERMULE
A small germ.
GERN
To grin or yawn. [Obs.] "[/He] gaped like a gulf when he didgern." Spenser.
GERNER
A garner. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GEROCOMIA
See Gerocomy.
GEROCOMICAL
Pertaining to gerocomy. Dr. John Smith.
GEROCOMY
That part of medicine which treats of regimen for old people.
GERONTES
Magistrates in Sparta, who with the ephori and kings,constituted the supreme civil authority.
GERONTOCRACY
Government by old men. [R.] Gladstone.
GEROPIGIA
A mixture composed of unfermented grape juice, brandy, sugar,etc., for adulteration of wines. [Written also jerupigia.]
GERRYMANDER
To divide (a State) into districts for the choice ofrepresentatives, in an unnatural and unfair way, with a view to givea political party an advantage over its opponent. [Political Cant, U.S.]
GERUND
A verbal noun ending in -e, preceded by to and usually denotingpurpose or end; -- called also the dative infinitive; as, "Ic hรฆbbemete tรด etanne" (I have meat to eat.) In Modern English the name hasbeen applied to verbal or participal nouns in -ing denoting atransitive action; e. g., by throwing a stone.
GERUNDIAL
Pertaining to, or resembling, a gerund; as, a gerundial use.
GERUNDIVE
Pertaining to, or partaking of, the nature of the gerund;gerundial.-- n. (Lat. Gram.)
GERUNDIVELY
In the manner of a gerund; as, or in place of, a gerund.
GERY
Changeable; fickle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GESLING
A gosling. [Prov. Eng.]
GESSE
To guess. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GESSO DURO
A variety of gesso which when dried becomes hard and durable,often used in making bas-relief casts, which are colored and mountedin elaborate frames.
GEST
A guest. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GESTANT
Bearing within; laden; burdened; pregnant. [R.] "Clouds gestantwith heat." Mrs. Browning.
GESTE
To tell stories or gests. [Obs.]
GESTICULATE
To make gestures or motions, as in speaking; to use postures.Sir T. Herbert.
GESTICULATOR
One who gesticulates.
GESTICULATORY
Representing by, or belonging to, gestures. T. Warton.
GESTOUR
A reciter of gests or legendary tales; a story-teller. [Obs.]Minstrels and gestours for to tell tales. Chaucer.
GESTURAL
Relating to gesture.
GESTURE
To accompany or illustrate with gesture or action; togesticulate.It is not orderly read, nor gestured as beseemeth. Hooker.
GESTURELESS
Free from gestures.
GESTUREMENT
Act of making gestures; gesturing. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
GET
Jet, the mineral. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GET-PENNY
Something which gets or gains money; a successful affair.[Colloq.] Chapman.
GET-UP
General composition or structure; manner in which the parts ofa thing are combined; make-up; style of dress, etc. [Colloq.] H.Kingsley.
GETEN
p. p. of Get. Chaucer.
GETH
the original third pers. sing. pres. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GETTABLE
That may be obtained. [R.]
GETTER
One who gets, gains, obtains, acquires, begets, or procreates.
GETTERUP
One who contrives, makes, or arranges for, anything, as a book,a machine, etc. [Colloq.]A diligent getter-up of miscellaneous works. W. Irving.
GEUSDISM
The Marxian socialism and programme of reform throughrevolution as advocated by the French political leader Jules BasileGuesde (pron. ged) (1845- ). -- Guesd"ist (#), n. & a.
GEWGAW
A showy trifle; a toy; a splendid plaything; a pretty butworthless bauble.A heavy gewgaw called a crown. Dryden.
GEYSER
A boiling spring which throws forth at frequent intervals jetsof water, mud, etc., driven up by the expansive power of steam.
GEYSERITE
A loose hydrated form of silica, a variety of opal, depositedin concretionary cauliflowerlike masses, around some hot springs andgeysers.
GHARRY
Any wheeled cart or carriage. [India]
GHAST
To strike aghast; to affright. [Obs.]Ghasted by the noise I made. Full suddenly he fled. Shak.
GHASTFUL
Fit to make one aghast; dismal. [Obs.] -- Ghast"ful*ly, adv.
GHASTLINESS
The state of being ghastly; a deathlike look.
GHASTLY
In a ghastly manner; hideously.Staring full ghastly like a strangled man. Shak.
GHASTNESS
Ghastliness. [Obs.] Shak.
GHAWAZI
Egyptian dancing girls, of a lower sort than the almeh.
GHAZI
Among Mohammedans, a warrior champion or veteran, esp. in thedestruction of infidels.
GHEE
Butter clarified by boiling, and thus converted into a kind ofoil. [India] Malcom.
GHERKIN
A kind of small, prickly cucumber, much used for pickles.
GHESS
See Guess. [Obs.]
GHETTO
The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city.I went to the Ghetto, where the Jews dwell. Evelyn.
GHIBELLINE
One of a faction in Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries,which favored the German emperors, and opposed the Guelfs, oradherents of the poses. Brande & C.
GHOLE
See Ghoul.
GHOST
To die; to expire. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
GHOST DANCE
A religious dance of the North American Indians, participatedin by both sexes, and looked upon as a rite of invocation the purposeof which is, through trance and vision, to bring the dancer intocommunion with the unseen world and the spirits of departed friends.The dance is the chief rite of the Ghost-dance, or Messiah, religion,which originated about 1890 in the doctrines of the Piute Wovoka, theIndian Messiah, who taught that the time was drawing near when thewhole Indian race, the dead with the living, should be reunited tolive a life of millennial happiness upon a regenerated earth. Thereligion inculcates peace, righteousness, and work, and holds that ingood time, without warlike intervention, the oppressive white rulewill be removed by the higher powers. The religion spread through amajority of the western tribes of the United States, only in the caseof the Sioux, owing to local causes, leading to an outbreak.
GHOSTFISH
A pale ubspotted variety of the wrymouth.
GHOSTLESS
Without life or spirit. [R.]
GHOSTLIKE
Like a ghost; ghastly.
GHOSTLINESS
The quality of being ghostly.
GHOSTLY
Spiritually; mystically. Chaucer.
GHOSTOLOGY
Ghost lore. [R.]It seemed even more unaccountable than if it had been a thing ofghostology and witchcraft. Hawthorne.
GHOUL
An imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which wassupposed to feed upon human bodies. [Written also ghole .] Moore.
GHOULISH
Characteristic of a ghoul; vampirelike; hyenalike.
GHYLL
A ravine. See Gill a woody glen. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]Wordsworth.
GIALLOLINO
A term variously employed by early writers on art, thoughcommonly designating the yellow oxide of lead, or massicot. Fairholt.
GIAMBEUX
Greaves; armor for the legs. [Obs.] Spenser.
GIANT
Like a giant; extraordinary in size, strength, or power; as,giant brothers; a giant son. Giant cell. (Anat.) See Myeloplax.-- Giant clam (Zoรถl.), a bivalve shell of the genus Tridacna, esp.T. gigas, which sometimes weighs 500 pounds. The shells are sometimesused in churches to contain holy water.-- Giant heron (Zoรถl.), a very large African heron (Ardeomegagoliath). It is the largest heron known.-- Giant kettle, a pothole of very large dimensions, as found inNorway in connection with glaciers. See Pothole.-- Giant powder. See Nitroglycerin.-- Giant puffball (Bot.), a fungus (Lycoperdon giganteum), ediblewhen young, and when dried used for stanching wounds.-- Giant salamander (Zoรถl.), a very large aquatic salamander(Megalobatrachus maximus), found in Japan. It is the largest ofliving Amphibia, becoming a yard long.-- Giant squid (Zoรถl.), one of several species of very large squids,belonging to Architeuthis and allied genera. Some are over forty feetlong.
GIANTESS
A woman of extraordinary size.
GIANTIZE
To play the giant. [R.] Sherwood.
GIANTLY
Appropriate to a giant. [Obs.] Usher.
GIANTRY
The race of giants. [R.] Cotgrave.
GIANTSHIP
The state, personality, or character, of a giant; -- acompellation for a giant.His giantship is gone somewhat crestfallen. Milton.
GIAOUR
An infidel; -- a term applied by Turks to disbelievers in theMohammedan religion, especially Christrians. Byron.
GIB
A male cat; a tomcat. [Obs.]
GIB BOOM
See Jib boom.
GIB-CAT
A male cat, esp. an old one. See lst Gib. n. [Obs.] Shak.
GIBARO
The offspring of a Spaniard and an Indian; a Spanish-Indianmestizo. [Sp. Amer.]
GIBBARTAS
One of several finback whales of the North Atlantic; -- calledalso Jupiter whale. [Written also jubartas, gubertas, dubertus.]
GIBBER
A balky horse. Youatt.
GIBBERISH
Rapid and inarticulate talk; unintelligible language; unmeaningwords; jargon.He, like a gypsy, oftentimes would go; All kinds of gibberish he hadlearnt to known. Drayton.Such gibberish as children may be heard amusing themselves with.Hawthorne.
GIBBIER
Wild fowl; game. [Obs.] Addison.
GIBBON
Any arboreal ape of the genus Hylobates, of which many speciesand varieties inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia. They aretailless and without cheek pouches, and have very long arms, adaptedfor climbing.
GIBBOSE
Humped; protuberant; -- said of a surface which presents one ormore large elevations. Brande & C.
GIBBOSTITY
The state of being gibbous or gibbose; gibbousness.
GIBBSITE
A hydrate of alumina.
GIBE
To cast reproaches and sneering expressions; to rail; to uttertaunting, sarcastic words; to flout; to fleer; to scoff.Fleer and gibe, and laugh and flout. Swift.
GIBEL
A kind of carp (Cyprinus gibelio); -- called also Prussiancarp.
GIBER
One who utters gibes. B. Jonson.
GIBFISH
The male of the salmon. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
GIBINGLY
In a gibing manner; scornfully.
GIBLET
Made of giblets; as, a giblet pie.
GIBLETS
The inmeats, or edible viscera (heart, gizzard, liver, etc.),of poultry.
GID
A disease of sheep, characterized by vertigo; the staggers. Itis caused by the presence of the CC.
GIDDILY
In a giddy manner.
GIDDINESS
The quality or state of being giddy.
GIDDY
To reel; to whirl. Chapman.
GIDDY-HEAD
A person without thought fulness, prudence, or judgment.[Colloq.] Burton.
GIDDY-HEADED
Thoughtless; unsteady.
GIDDY-PACED
Moving irregularly; flighty; fickle. [R.] Shak.
GIE
To guide. See Gye . [Obs.] Chaucer.
GIER-EAGLE
A bird referred to in the Bible (Lev. xi. 18and Deut. xiv. 17)as unclean, probably the Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus).
GIER-FALCON
The gyrfalcon.
GIESECKITE
A mineral occurring in greenish gray six-sided prisms, having agreasy luster. It is probably a pseudomorph after elรฆolite.
GIF
If. [Obs.]
GIFFARD INJECTOR
See under Injector.
GIFFGAFF
Mutial accommodation; mutual giving. [Scot.]
GIFFY
See Jiffy.
GIFT
A voluntary transfer of real or personal property, without anyconsideration. It can be perfected only by deed, or in case ofpersonal property, by an actual delivery of possession. Bouvier.Burrill. Gift rope (Naut), a rope extended to a boat for towing it; aguest rope.
GIFTEDNESS
The state of being gifted. Echard.
GIG
A fiddle. [Obs.]
GIGANTEAN
Like a giant; mighty; gigantic. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
GIGANTESQUE
Befitting a giant; bombastic; magniloquent.The sort of mock-heroic gigantesque With which we bantered littleLilia first. Tennyson.
GIGANTICAL
Bulky, big. [Obs.] Burton.-- Gi*gan"tic*al*ly, adv.
GIGANTICIDE
The act of killing, or one who kills, a giant. Hallam.
GIGANTINE
Gigantic. [Obs.] Bullokar.
GIGANTOLOGY
An account or description of giants.
GIGANTOMACHY
A war of giants; especially, the fabulous war of the giantsagainst heaven.
GIGERIUM
The muscular stomach, or gizzard, of birds.
GIGGET
Same as Gigot.Cut the slaves to giggets. Beau. & Fl.
GIGGLE
To laugh with short catches of the breath or voice; to laugh ina light, affected, or silly manner; to titter with childish levity.Giggling and laughing with all their might At the piteous hap of thefairy wight. J. R. Drake.
GIGGLER
One who giggles or titters.
GIGGLY
Prone to giggling. Carlyle.
GIGGOT
See Gigot. [Obs.] Chapman.
GIGGYNG
The act of fastending the gige or leather strap to the shield.[Obs.] "Gigging of shields." Chaucer.
GIGLOT
Giddi; light; inconstant; wanton. [Obs.] "O giglot fortune!"Shak.
GIGUE
A piece of lively dance music, in two strains which arerepeated; also, the dance.
GILA MONSTER
A large tuberculated lizard (Heloderma suspectum) native of thedry plains of Arizona, New Mexico, etc. It is the only lizard knownto have venomous teeth.
GILDALE
A drinking bout in which every one pays an equal share. [Obs.]
GILDEN
Gilded. Holland.
GILDER
One who gilds; one whose occupation is to overlay with gold.
GILE
Guile. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GILL
An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia.Fishes perform respiration under water by the gills. Ray.
GILL-FLIRT
A thoughtless, giddy girl; a flirt-gill. Sir W. Scott.
GILLHOUSE
A shop where gill is sold.Thee shall each alehouse, thee each gillhouse mourn. Pope.
GILLIAN
A girl; esp., a wanton; a gill. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
GILOUR
A guiler; deceiver. [Obs.]
GILSE
See Grilse.
GILT
A female pig, when young.
GILTHEAD
A marine fish. The name is applied to two species:(a) The Pagrus, or Chrysophrys, auratus, a valuable food fish commonin the Mediterranean (so named from its golden-colored head); --called also giltpoll.(b) The Crenilabrus melops, of the British coasts; -- called alsogolden maid, conner, sea partridge.
GILTIF
Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GILTTAIL
A yellow-tailed worm or larva.
GIM
Neat; spruce. [Prov.]
GIMBLET
See Gimlet.
GIMCRACK
A trivial mechanism; a device; a toy; a pretty thing.Arbuthnot.
GIMLET
A small tool for boring holes. It has a leading screw, agrooved body, and a cross handle. Gimlet eye, a squint-eye. [Colloq.]Wright.
GIMMAL
Made or consisting of interlocked rings, gimmal mail.In their pale dull mouths the gimmal bit Lies foul with chewed grass.Shak.Gimmal joint. See Gimbal joint, under Gimbal.
GIMP
Smart; spruce; trim; nice. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
GIN
Against; near by; towards; as, gin night. [Scot.] A. Ross(1778).
GING
Same as Gang, n., 2. [Obs.]There is a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy against me. Shak.
GINGAL
See Jingal.
GINGER
A plant of the genus Zingiber, of the East and West Indies. Thespecies most known is Z. officinale.
GINGERBREAD
A kind of plain sweet cake seasoned with ginger, and sometimesmade in fanciful shapes. "Gingerbread that was full fine." Chaucer.Gingerbread tree (Bot.), the doom palm; -- so called from theresemblance of its fruit to gingerbread. See Doom Palm.-- Gingerbread work, ornamentation, in architecture or decoration,of a fantastic, trivial, or tawdry character.
GINGERLY
Cautiously; timidly; fastidiously; daintily.What is't that you took up so gingerly Shak.
GINGERNESS
Cautiousness; tenderness.
GINGHAM
A kind of cotton or linen cloth, usually in stripes or checks,the yarn of which is dyed before it is woven; -- distinguished fromprinted cotton or prints.
GINGING
The lining of a mine shaft with stones or bricks to preventcaving.
GINGIVAL
Of or pertaining to the gums. Holder.
GINGLE
See Jingle.
GINGLYFORM
Ginglymoid.
GINGLYMODI
An order of ganoid fishes, including the modern gar pikes andmany allied fossil forms. They have rhombic, ganoid scales, aheterocercal tail, paired fins without an axis, fulcra on the fins,and a bony skeleton, with the vertebrรฆ convex in front and concavebehind, forming a ball and socket joint. See Ganoidel.
GINGLYMUS
A hinge joint; an articulation, admitting of flexion andextension, or motion in two directions only, as the elbow and theankle.
GINHOUSE
A building where cotton is ginned.
GINKGO
A large ornamental tree (Ginkgo biloba) from China and Japan,belonging to the Yew suborder of Coniferรฆ. Its leaves are so likethose of some maidenhair ferns, that it is also called the maidenhairtree.
GINNEE
See Jinnee.
GINNET
See Genet, a horse.
GINNING
Beginning. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GINNY-CARRIAGE
A small, strong carriage for conveying materials on a railroad.[Eng.]
GINSENG
A plant of the genus Aralia, the root of which is highly valuedas a medicine among the Chinese. The Chinese plant (Aralia Schinseng)has become so rare that the American (A. quinquefolia) has largelytaken its place, and its root is now an article of export fromAmerica to China. The root, when dry, is of a yellowish white color,with a sweetness in the taste somewhat resembling that of licorice,combined with a slight aromatic bitterness.
GINSHOP
A shop or barroom where gin is sold as a beverage. [Colloq.]
GIP
To take out the entrails of (herrings).
GIPOUN
A short cassock. [Written also gepoun, gypoun, jupon, juppon.][Obs.]
GIPSY
See Gypsy.
GIPSYISM
See Gypsyism.
GIRAFFE
An African ruminant (Camelopardalis giraffa) related to thedeers and antelopes, but placed in a family by itself; thecamelopard. It is the tallest of animals, being sometimes twenty feetfrom the hoofs to the top of the head. Its neck is very long, and itsfore legs are much longer than its hind legs.
GIRANDOLE
A kind of revolving firework.
GIRD
To gibe; to sneer; to break a scornful jest; to utter severesarcasms.Men of all sorts take a pride to gird at me. Shak.
GIRDER
One who girds; a satirist.
GIRDING
That with which one is girded; a girdle.Instead of a stomacher, a girding of sackcloth. Is. iii. 24.
GIRDLE
A griddle. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
GIRDLER
An American longicorn beetle (Oncideres cingulatus) which laysits eggs in the twigs of the hickory, and then girdles each branch bygnawing a groove around it, thus killing it to provide suitable foodfor the larvรฆ.
GIRE
See Gyre.
GIRKIN
See Gherkin.
GIRL
A roebuck two years old. [Prov. Eng.]
GIRLHOOD
State or time of being a girl.
GIRLISH
Like, or characteristic of, a girl; of or pertaining togirlhood; innocent; artless; immature; weak; as, girlish ways;girlish grief.-- Girl"ish*ly, adv.-- Girl"ish*ness, n.
GIRLOND
A garland; a prize. [Obs.] Chapman.
GIRN
To grin. [Obs.]
GIRONDIST
A member of the moderate republican party formed in the Frenchlegislative assembly in 1791. The Girondists were so called becausetheir leaders were deputies from the department of La Gironde.
GIRROCK
A garfish. Johnson.
GIRT
imp. & p. p. of Gird.
GIRTH
To bind as with a girth. [R.] Johnson.
GIRTLINE
A gantline. Hammock girtline, a line rigged for hanging outhammocks to dry.
GISARM
A weapon with a scythe-shaped blade, and a separate long sharppoint, mounted on a long staff and carried by foot soldiers.
GISE
To feed or pasture. [Obs.]
GISLE
A pledge. [Obs.] Bp. Gibson.
GIT
See Geat.
GITE
A gown. [Obs.]She came often in a gite of red. Chaucer.
GITH
The corn cockle; also anciently applied to the Nigella, orfennel flower.
GITTERN
An instrument like a guitar. "Harps, lutes, and giternes."Chaucer.
GITTITH
A musical instrument, of unknown character, supposed by some tohave been used by the people of Gath, and thence obtained by David.It is mentioned in the title of Psalms viii., lxxxi., and lxxxiv. Dr.W. Smith.
GIUST
Same as Joust. Spenser.
GIUSTO
In just, correct, or suitable time.
GIVE
To set forth as a known quantity or a known relation, or as apremise from which to reason; -- used principally in the passive formgiven.
GIVEN
p. p. & a. from Give, v.
GIVER
One who gives; a donor; a bestower; a grantor; one who impartsor distributes.It is the giver, and not the gift, that engrosses the heart of theChristian. Kollock.
GIVES
Fetters.
GIZZARD
The second, or true, muscular stomach of birds, in which thefood is crushed and ground, after being softened in the glandularstomach (crop), or lower part of the esophagus; the gigerium.
GLABELLA
The space between the eyebrows, also including thecorresponding part of the frontal bone; the mesophryon.-- Gla*bel"lar, a.
GLABELLUM
The median, convex lobe of the head of a trilobite. SeeTrilobite.
GLABRATE
Becoming smooth or glabrous from age. Gray.
GLABRITY
Smoothness; baldness. [R.]
GLABROUS
Smooth; having a surface without hairs or any unevenness.
GLACE
Coated with icing; iced; glazed; -- said of fruits, sweetmeats,cake, etc.
GLACIAL
Resembling ice; having the appearance and consistency of ice; -- said of certain solid compounds; as, glacial phosphoric or aceticacids. Glacial acid (Chem.), an acid of such strength or purity as tocrystallize at an ordinary temperature, in an icelike form; as aceticor carbolic acid.-- Glacial drift (Geol.), earth and rocks which have beentransported by moving ice, land ice, or icebergs; bowlder drift.-- Glacial epoch or period (Geol.), a period during which theclimate of the modern temperate regions was polar, and ice coveredlarge portions of the northern hemisphere to the mountain tops.-- Glacial theory or hypothesis. (Geol.) See Glacier theory, underGlacier.
GLACIALIST
One who attributes the phenomena of the drift, in geology, toglaciers.
GLACIATE
To turn to ice.
GLACIER
An immense field or stream of ice, formed in the region ofperpetual snow, and moving slowly down a mountain slope or valley, asin the Alps, or over an extended area, as in Greenland.
GLACIOUS
Pertaining to, consisting of or resembling, ice; icy. Sir T.Browne.
GLACIS
A gentle slope, or a smooth, gently sloping bank; especially(Fort.), that slope of earth which inclines from the covered waytoward the exterior ground or country (see Illust. of Ravelin).
GLAD
To make glad; to cheer; to gladden; to exhilarate. Chaucer.That which gladded all the warrior train. Dryden.Each drinks the juice that glads the heart of man. Pope.
GLADDEN
To make glad; to cheer; to please; to gratify; to rejoice; toexhilarate.A secret pleasure gladdened all that saw him. Addison.
GLADDER
One who makes glad. Chaucer.
GLADEN
Sword grass; any plant with sword-shaped leaves, esp. theEuropean Iris foetidissima. [Written also gladwyn, gladdon, andglader.]
GLADEYE
The European yellow-hammer.
GLADFUL
Full of gladness; joyful; glad. [R.] -- Glad"ful*ness, n. [R.]Spenser.It followed him with gladful glee. Spenser.
GLADIATE
Sword-shaped; resembling a sword in form, as the leaf of theiris, or of the gladiolus.
GLADIATOR
Of or pertaining to gladiators, or to contests or combatants ingeneral.
GLADIATORISM
The art or practice of a gladiator.
GLADIATORSHIP
Conduct, state, or art, of a gladiator.
GLADIATORY
Gladiatorial. [R.]
GLADIATURE
Swordplay; fencing; gladiatorial contest. Gayton.
GLADIOLE
A lilylike plant, of the genus Gladiolus; -- called also cornflag.
GLADIOLUS
A genus of plants having bulbous roots and gladiate leaves, andincluding many species, some of which are cultivated and valued forthe beauty of their flowers; the corn flag; the sword lily.
GLADIUS
The internal shell, or pen, of cephalopods like the squids.
GLADNESS
State or quality of being glad; pleasure; joyful satisfaction;cheerfulness.They . . . did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart.Acts ii. 46.
GLADSHIP
A state of gladness. [Obs.] Gower.
GLADSTONE
A four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two inside seats, calashtop, and seats for driver and footman.
GLADWYN
See Gladen.
GLAIR
To smear with the white of an egg.
GLAIRE
See Glair.
GLAIREOUS
Glairy; covered with glair.
GLAIRIN
A glairy viscous substance, which forms on the surface ofcertain mineral waters, or covers the sides of their inclosures; --called also baregin.
GLAIRY
Like glair, or partaking of its qualities; covered with glair;viscous and transparent; slimy. Wiseman.
GLAMA
A copious gummy secretion of the humor of the eyelids, inconsequence of some disorder; blearedness; lippitude.
GLAMOURIE
Glamour. [Scot.]
GLANCE
A name given to some sulphides, mostly dark-colored, which havea brilliant metallic luster, as the sulphide of copper, called copperglance. Glance coal, anthracite; a mineral composed chiefly ofcarbon.-- Glance cobalt, cobaltite, or gray cobalt.-- Glance copper, c -- Glance wood, a hard wood grown in Cuba, andused for gauging instruments, carpenters' rules, etc. McElrath.
GLANCINGLY
In a glancing manner; transiently; incidentally; indirectly.Hakewill.
GLAND
The movable part of a stuffing box by which the packing iscompressed; -- sometimes called a follower. See Illust. of Stuffingbox, under Stuffing.
GLANDAGE
A feeding on nuts or mast. [Obs.] Crabb.
GLANDERED
Affected with glanders; as, a glandered horse. Yu
GLANDEROUS
Of or pertaining to glanders; of the nature of glanders.Youatt.
GLANDERS
A highly contagious and very destructive disease of horses,asses, mules, etc., characterized by a constant discharge of stickymatter from the nose, and an enlargement and induration of the glandsbeneath and within the lower jaw. It may transmitted to dogs, goats,sheep, and to human beings.
GLANDIFEROUS
Bearing acorns or other nuts; as, glandiferous trees.
GLANDIFORM
Having the form of a gland or nut; resembling a gland.
GLANDULAR
Containing or supporting glands; consisting of glands;pertaining to glands.
GLANDULATION
The situation and structure of the secretory vessels in plants.Martyn.Glandulation respects the secretory vessels, which are eitherglandules, follicles, or utricles. J. Lee.
GLANDULE
A small gland or secreting vessel.
GLANDULIFEROUS
Bearing glandules.
GLANDULOSE
Same as Glandulous.
GLANDULOSITY
Quality of being glandulous; a collection of glands. [R.] SirT. Browne.
GLANDULOUS
Containing glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands;resembling glands.
GLANS
The vascular body which forms the apex of the penis, and theextremity of the clitoris.
GLARE
To shoot out, or emit, as a dazzling light.Every eye Glared lightning, and shot forth pernicious fire. Milton.
GLAREOUS
Glairy. John Georgy (1766).
GLARING
Clear; notorious; open and bold; barefaced; as, a glaringcrime.-- Glar"ing*ly, adv.
GLARY
Of a dazzling luster; glaring; bright; shining; smooth.Bright, crystal glass is glary. Boyle.
GLASS
Any substance having a peculiar glassy appearance, and aconchoidal fracture, and usually produced by fusion.
GLASS-CRAB
The larval state (Phyllosoma) of the genus Palinurus and alliedgenera. It is remarkable for its strange outlines, thinness, andtransparency. See Phyllosoma.
GLASS-FACED
Mirror-faced; reflecting the sentiments of another. [R.] "Theglass-faced flatterer." Shak.
GLASS-GAZING
Given to viewing one's self in a glass or mirror; finical.[Poetic] Shak.
GLASS-ROPE
A remarkable vitreous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, firstbrought from Japan. It has a long stem, consisting of a bundle oflong and large, glassy, siliceous fibers, twisted together.
GLASS-SNAIL
A small, transparent, land snail, of the genus Vitrina.
GLASS-SNAKE
A long, footless lizard (Ophiosaurus ventralis), of theSouthern United States; -- so called from its fragility, the taileasily breaking into small pieces. It grows to the length of threefeet. The name is applied also to similar species found in the OldWorld.
GLASS-SPONGE
A siliceous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, and allied genera;-- so called from their glassy fibers or spicules; -- called alsovitreous sponge. See Glass-rope, and Euplectella.
GLASSEN
Glassy; glazed. [Obs.]And pursues the dice with glassen eyes. B. Jonson.
GLASSEYE
A fish of the great lakes; the wall-eyed pike.
GLASSFUL
The contents of a glass; as much of anything as a glass willhold.
GLASSHOUSE
A house where glass is made; a commercial house that deals inglassware.
GLASSILY
So as to resemble glass.
GLASSINESS
The quality of being glassy.
GLASSITE
A member of a Scottish sect, founded in the 18th century byJohn Glass, a minister of the Established Church of Scotland, whotaught that justifying faith is "no more than a simple assent to thedivine testimone passively recived by the understanding." The Englishand American adherents of this faith are called Sandemanians, afterRobert Sandeman, the son-in-law and disciple of Glass.
GLASSWARE
Ware, or articles collectively, made of glass.
GLASSWORK
Manufacture of glass; articles or ornamentation made of glass.
GLASSWORT
A seashore plant of the Spinach family (Salicornia herbacea),with succulent jointed stems; also, a prickly plant of the samefamily (Salsola Kali), both formerly burned for the sake of theashes, which yield soda for making glass and soap.
GLASTONBURY THORN
A variety of the common hawthorn. Loudon.
GLASYNGE
Glazing or glass. [Obs.]
GLAUBERITE
A mineral, consisting of the sulphates of soda and lime.
GLAUCESCENT
Having a somewhat glaucous appearance or nature; becomingglaucous.
GLAUCIC
Of or pertaining to the Glaucium or horned poppy; -- formerlyapplied to an acid derived from it, now known to be fumaric acid.
GLAUCINE
Glaucous or glaucescent.
GLAUCODOT
A metallic mineral having a grayish tin-white color, andcontaining cobalt and iron, with sulphur and arsenic.
GLAUCOMA
Dimness or abolition of sight, with a diminution oftransparency, a bluish or greenish tinge of the refracting media ofthe eye, and a hard inelastic condition of the eyeball, with markedincrease of tension within the eyeball.
GLAUCOMATOUS
Having the nature of glaucoma.
GLAUCOMETER
See Gleucometer.
GLAUCONITE
The green mineral characteristic of the greensand of the chalkand other formations. It is a hydrous silicate of iron and potash.See Greensand.
GLAUCOPHANE
A mineral of a dark bluish color, related to amphibole. It ischaracteristic of certain crystalline rocks.
GLAUCOSIS
Same as Glaucoma.
GLAUCOUS
Covered with a fine bloom or fine white powder easily rubbedoff, as that on a blue plum, or on a cabbage leaf. Gray.
GLAUCUS
A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks, found in the warmerlatitudes, swimming in the open sea. These mollusks are beautifullycolored with blue and silvery white.
GLAUM
To grope with the hands, as in the dark. [Scot.] To glaum at,to grasp or snatch at; to aspire to.Wha glaum'd at kingdoms three. Burns.
GLAVE
See Glaive.
GLAVERER
A flatterer. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.
GLAYMORE
A claymore. Johnson.
GLAZE
To apply thinly a transparent or semitransparent color to(another color), to modify the effect.
GLAZEN
Resembling glass; glasslike; glazed. [Obs.] Wyclif.
GLAZIER
One whose business is to set glass. Glazier's diamond. Seeunder Diamond.
GLAZING
Transparent, or semitransparent, colors passed thinly overother colors, to modify the effect.
GLAZY
Having a glazed appearance; -- said of the fractured surface ofsome kinds of pin iron.
GLEAD
A live coal. See Gleed. [Archaic]
GLEAM
To disgorge filth, as a hawk.
GLEAMY
Darting beams of light; casting light in rays; flashing;coruscating.In brazed arms, that cast a gleamy ray, Swift through the town thewarrior bends his way. Pope.
GLEAN
A collection made by gleaning.The gleans of yellow thyme distend his thighs. Dryden.
GLEANING
The act of gathering after reapers; that which is collected bygleaning.Glenings of natural knowledge. Cook.
GLEBA
The chambered sporogenous tissue forming the central mass ofthe sporophore in puff balls, stinkhorns, etc.
GLEBE
The land belonging, or yielding revenue, to a parish church orecclesiastical benefice.
GLEBELESS
Having no glebe.
GLEBOSITY
The quality of being glebous. [R.]
GLEDE
The common European kite (Milvus ictinus). This name is alsosometimes applied to the buzzard. [Written also glead, gled, gleed,glade, and glide.]
GLEE
An unaccompanied part song for three or more solo voices. It isnot necessarily gleesome.
GLEE CLUB
A club or company organized for singing glees, and (byextension) part songs, ballads, etc.
GLEED
A live or glowing coal; a glede. [Archaic] Chaucer. Longfellow.
GLEEFUL
Merry; gay; joyous. Shak.
GLEEK
An enticing look or glance. [Obs.]A pretty gleek coming from Pallas' eye. Beau. & Fl.
GLEEMAN
A name anciently given to an itinerant minstrel or musician.
GLEEN
To glisten; to gleam. [Obs.] Prior.
GLEESOME
Merry; joyous; gleeful.
GLEET
A transparent mucous discharge from the membrane of theurethra, commonly an effect of gonorrhea. Hoblyn.
GLEETY
Ichorous; thin; limpid. Wiseman.
GLEG
Quick of perception; alert; sharp. [Scot.] Jamieson.
GLEN
A secluded and narrow valley; a dale; a depression betweenhills.And wooes the widow's daughter of the glen. Spenser.
GLENOID
Having the form of a smooth and shallow depression; sockas, theglenoid cavity, or fossa, of the scapula, in which the head of thehumerus articulates.
GLENOIDAL
Glenoid.
GLENT
See Glint.
GLEUCOMETER
An instrument for measuring the specific gravity andascertaining the quantity of sugar contained in must.
GLEW
See Glue. [Obs.]
GLEY
To squint; to look obliquely; to overlook things. [Scot.]Jamieson.
GLIADIN
Vegetable glue or gelatin; glutin. It is one of theconstituents of wheat gluten, and is a tough, amorphous substance,which resembles animal glue or gelatin.
GLIB
To make glib. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
GLIBLY
In a glib manner; as, to speak glibly.
GLIBNESS
The quality of being glib.
GLICKE
An ogling look. [Obs.]
GLIDDEN
p. p. of Glide. Chaucer.
GLIDE
The glede or kite.
GLIDEN
p. p. of Glide. Chaucer.
GLIDER
One who, or that which, glides.
GLIDING ANGLE
The angle, esp. the least angle, at which a gliding machine oraรซroplane will glide to earth by virtue of gravity without appliedpower.
GLIDING MACHINE
A construction consisting essentially of one or more aรซroplanesfor gliding in an inclined path from a height to the ground.
GLIDINGLY
In a gliding manner.
GLIKE
A sneer; a flout. [Obs.]
GLIMMER
To give feeble or scattered rays of light; to shine faintly; toshow a faint, unsteady light; as, the glimmering dawn; a glimmeringlamp.The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day. Shak.
GLIMPSE
to appear by glimpses; to catch glimpses. Drayton.
GLINT
A glimpse, glance, or gleam. [Scot.] "He saw a glint of light."Ramsay.
GLIOMA
A tumor springing from the neuroglia or connective tissue ofthe brain, spinal cord, or other portions of the nervous system.
GLIRES
An order of mammals; the Rodentia.-- Gli"rine, a.
GLISSADE
A sliding, as down a snow slope in the Alps. Tyndall.
GLISSANDO
A gliding effect; gliding.
GLISSETTE
The locus described by any point attached to a curve that slipscontinuously on another fixed curve, the movable curve having norotation at any instant.
GLIST
Glimmer; mica.
GLISTEN
To sparkle or shine; especially, to shine with a mild, subdued,and fitful luster; to emit a soft, scintillating light; to gleam; as,the glistening stars.
GLISTER
To be bright; to sparkle; to be brilliant; to shine; toglisten; to glitter.All that glisters is not gold. Shak.
GLISTERINGLY
In a glistering manner.
GLITTER
A bright, sparkling light; brilliant and showy luster;brilliancy; as, the glitter of arms; the glitter of royal equipage.Milton.
GLITTERAND
Glittering. [Obs.] Spenser.
GLITTERINGLY
In a glittering manner.
GLOAM
To be sullen or morose. [Obs.]
GLOAR
To squint; to stare. [Obs.]
GLOAT
To look steadfastly; to gazIn vengeance gloating on another's pain. Byron.
GLOBARD
A glowworm. {Obs.] Holland.
GLOBE
To gather or form into a globe.
GLOBE-SHAPED
Shaped like a globe.
GLOBEFISH
A plectognath fish of the genera Diodon, Tetrodon, and alliedgenera. The globefishes can suck in water or air and distend the bodyto a more or less globular form. Called also porcupine fish, and seahedgehog. See Diodon.
GLOBIFEROUS
Having a round or globular tip.
GLOBIGERINA
A genus of small Foraminifera, which live abundantly at or nearthe surface of the sea. Their dead shells, falling to the bottom,make up a large part of the soft mud, generally found in depths below3,000 feet, and called globigerina ooze. See Illust. of Foraminifera.
GLOBOSE
Having a rounded form resembling that of a globe; globular, ornearly so; spherical. Milton.
GLOBOSELY
In a globular manner; globularly.
GLOBOSITY
Sphericity. Ray.
GLOBOUS
Spherical. Milton.
GLOBULAR
Globe-shaped; having the form of a ball or sphere; spherical,or nearly so; as, globular atoms. Milton. Globular chart, a chart ofthe earth's surface constructed on the principles of the globularprojection.-- Globular projection (Map Projection), a perspective projection ofthe surface of a hemisphere upon a plane parallel to the base of thehemisphere, the point of sight being taken in the axis producedbeyond the surface of the opposite hemisphere a distance equal to theradius of the sphere into the sine of 45ยบ.-- Globular sailing, sailing on the arc of a great circle, or so asto make the shortest distance between two places; circular sailing.
GLOBULARITY
The state of being globular; globosity; sphericity.
GLOBULARLY
Spherically.
GLOBULARNESS
Sphericity; globosity.
GLOBULE
A minute spherical or rounded structure; as blood, lymph, andpus corpuscles, minute fungi, spores, etc.
GLOBULET
A little globule. Crabb.
GLOBULIFEROUS
Bearing globules; in geology, used of rocks, and denoting avariety of concretionary structure, where the concretions areisolated globules and evenly distributed through the texture of therock.
GLOBULIMETER
An instrument for measuring the number of red blood corpusclesin the blood.
GLOBULIN
An albuminous body, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilutesolutions of salt. It is present in the red blood corpuscles unitedwith hรฆmatin to form hรฆmoglobin. It is also found in the crystallinelens of the eye, and in blood serum, and is sometimes calledcrystallin. In the plural the word is applied to a group of proteidsubstances such as vitellin, myosin, fibrinogen, etc., all insolublein water, but soluble in dilute salt solutions.
GLOBULITE
A rudimentary form of crystallite, spherical in shape.
GLOBULOUS
Globular; spherical; orbicular.-- Glob"u*lous*ness, n.
GLOBY
Resembling, or pertaining to, a globe; round; orbicular. "Thegloby sea." Milton.
GLOCHIDIATE
Having barbs; as, glochidiate bristles. Gray.
GLOCHIDIUM
The larva or young of the mussel, formerly thought to be aparasite upon the parent's gills.
GLOCKENSPIEL
An instrument, originally a series of bells on an iron rod, nowa set of flat metal bars, diatonically tuned, giving a bell-like tonewhen played with a mallet; a carillon.
GLODE
imp. of Glide. Chaucer.
GLOME
Gloom. [Obs.]
GLOMERATE
Gathered together in a roundish mass or dense cluster;conglomerate.
GLOMEROUS
Gathered or formed into a ball or round mass. [Obs.] Blount.
GLOMERULE
A head or dense cluster of flowers, formed by condensation of acyme, as in the flowering dogwood.
GLOMERULUS
The bunch of looped capillary blood vessels in a Malpighiancapsule of the kidney.
GLOMULIFEROUS
Having small clusters of minutely branched coral-likeexcrescences. M. C. Cooke.
GLOOMILY
In a gloomy manner.
GLOOMINESS
State of being gloomy. Addison.
GLOOMING
Twilight (of morning or evening); the gloaming.When the faint glooming in the sky First lightened into day. Trench.The balmy glooming, crescent-lit. Tennyson.
GLOOMTH
Gloom. [R.] Walpole.
GLOPPEN
To surprise or astonish; to be startled or astonished. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell.
GLORE
To glare; to glower. [Obs.] Halliwell.
GLORIATION
Boast; a triumphing. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.Internal gloriation or triumph of the mind. Hobbes.
GLORIED
Illustrious; honorable; noble. [Obs.] Milton.
GLORIOLE
An aureole. [R.] Msr. Browning.
GLORIOSA
A genus of climbing plants with very showy lilylike blossoms,natives of India.
GLORIOSER
A boaster. [Obs.] Greene.
GLORIOSO
A boaster. [Obs.] Fuller.
GLOSE
See Gloze. Chaucer.
GLOSER
See Glosser.
GLOSS
To give a superficial luster or gloss to; to make smooth andshining; as, to gloss cloth.The glossed and gleamy wave. J. R. Drake.
GLOSSA
The tongue, or lingua, of an insect. See Hymenoptera.
GLOSSAL
Of or pertaining to the tongue; lingual.
GLOSSANTHRAX
A disease of horses and cattle accompanied by carbuncles in themouth and on the tongue.
GLOSSARIAL
Of or pertaining to glosses or to a glossary; containing aglossary.
GLOSSARIALLY
In the manner of a glossary.
GLOSSARIST
A writer of glosses or of a glossary; a commentator; ascholiast. Tyrwhitt.
GLOSSARY
A collection of glosses or explanations of words and passagesof a work or author; a partial dictionary of a work, an author, adialect, art, or science, explaining archaic, technical, or otheruncommon words.
GLOSSATA
The Lepidoptera.
GLOSSATOR
A writer of glosses or comments; a commentator. [R.] "The . . .glossators of Aristotle." Milman.
GLOSSER
A polisher; one who gives a luster.
GLOSSIC
A system of phonetic spelling based upon the present values ofEnglish letters, but invariably using one symbol to represent onesound only.Ingglish Glosik konvaiA. J. Ellis.
GLOSSILY
In a glossy manner.
GLOSSINESS
The condition or quality of being glossy; the luster orbrightness of a smooth surface. Boyle.
GLOSSIST
A writer of comments. [Obs.] Milton.
GLOSSITIS
Inflammation of the tongue.
GLOSSLY
Like gloss; specious. Cowley.
GLOSSOCOMON
A kind of hoisting winch.
GLOSSOEPIGLOTTIC
Pertaining to both tongue and epiglottis; as, glossoepiglotticfolds.
GLOSSOGRAPHER
A writer of a glossary; a commentator; a scholiast. Hayward.
GLOSSOGRAPHICAL
Of or pertaining to glossography.
GLOSSOGRAPHY
The writing of glossaries, glosses, or comments forillustrating an author.
GLOSSOHYAL
Pertaining to both the hyoidean arch and the tongue; -- appliedto the anterior segment of the hyoidean arch in many fishes.-- n. The glossohyal bone or cartilage; lingual bone; entoglossalbone.
GLOSSOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to glossology.
GLOSSOLOGIST
One who defines and explains terms; one who is versed inglossology.
GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL
Pertaining to both the tongue and the pharynx; -- appliedespecially to the ninth pair of cranial nerves, which are distributedto the pharynx and tongue.-- n. One of the glossopharyngeal nerves.
GLOST OVEN
An oven in which glazed pottery is fired; -- also called glazekiln, or glaze.
GLOTTAL
Of or pertaining to, or produced by, the glottis; glottic.Glottal catch, an effect produced upon the breath or voice by asudden opening or closing of the glotts. Sweet.
GLOTTIS
The opening from the pharynx into the larynx or into thetrachea. See Larynx.
GLOTTOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to glottology.
GLOTTOLOGIST
A linguist; a philologist.
GLOTTOLOGY
The science of tongues or languages; comparative philology;glossology.
GLOUT
To pout; to look sullen. [Obs.] Garth.
GLOVE
To cover with, or as with, a glove.
GLOVER
One whose trade it is to make or sell gloves. Glover's sutureor stitch, a kind of stitch used in sewing up wounds, in which thethread is drawn alternately through each side from within outward.
GLOW
To make hot; to flush. [Poetic]Fans, whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they didcool. Shak.
GLOWBARD
The glowworm. [Obs.]
GLOWER
to look intently; to stare angrily or with a scowl. Thackeray.
GLOWINGLY
In a glowing manner; with ardent heat or passion.
GLOWLAMP
An aphlogistic lamp. See Aphlogistic.
GLOWWORM
A coleopterous insect of the genus Lampyris; esp., the winglessfemales and larvรฆ of the two European species (L. noctiluca, and L.splendidula), which emit light from some of the abdominal segments.Like a glowworm in the night, The which hath fire in darkness, nonein light. Shak.
GLOXINIA
American genus of herbaceous plants with very handsome bell-shaped blossoms; -- named after B. P. Gloxin, a German botanist.
GLOZE
To smooth over; to palliate.By glozing the evil that is in the world. I. Taylor.
GLOZER
A flatterer. [Obs.] Gifford (1580).
GLUCIC
Pertaining to, or obtained from, sugar; as, glucic acid.
GLUCINA
A white or gray tasteless powder, the oxide of the elementglucinum; -- formerly called glucine.
GLUCINIC
Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, glucinum; as,glucinic oxide.
GLUCINUM
A rare metallic element, of a silver white color, and lowspecific gravity (2.1), resembling magnesium. It never occursnaturally in the free state, but is always combined, usually withsilica or alumina, or both; as in the minerals phenacite,chrysoberyl, beryl or emerald, euclase, and danalite. It was namedfrom its oxide glucina, which was known long before the element wasisolated. Symbol Gl. Atomic weight 9.1. Called also beryllium.[Formerly written also glucinium.]
GLUCOGEN
See Glycogen.
GLUCOGENESIS
Glycogenesis. [R.]
GLUCONIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, glucose. Gluconic acid (Chem.),an organic acid, obtained as a colorless, sirupy liquid, by theoxidation of glucose; -- called also maltonic acid, and dextronicacid.
GLUCOSE
Any one of a large class of sugars, isometric with glucoseproper, and including levulose, galactose, etc.
GLUCOSIDE
One of a large series of amorphous or crystalline substances,occurring very widely distributed in plants, rarely in animals, andregarded as influental agents in the formation and disposition of thesugars. They are frequently of a bitter taste, but, by the action offerments, or of dilute acids and alkalies, always break down intosome characteristic substance (acid, aldehyde, alcohol, phenole, oralkaloid) and glucose (or some other sugar); hence the name. They areof the nature of complex and compound ethers, and ethereal salts ofthe sugar carbohydrates.
GLUCOSURIA
A condition in which glucose is discharged in the urine;diabetes mellitus.
GLUE
A hard brittle brownish gelatin, obtained by boiling to a jellythe skins, hoofs, etc., of animals. When gently heated with water, itbecomes viscid and tenaceous, and is used as a cement for unitingsubstances. The name is also given to other adhesive or viscoussubstances. Bee glue. See under Bee.-- Fish glue, a strong kind of glue obtained from fish skins andbladders; isinglass.-- Glue plant (Bot.), a fucoid seaweed (Gloiopeltis tenax).-- Liquid glue, a fluid preparation of glue and acetic acidoralcohol.-- Marine glue, a solution of caoutchouc in naphtha, with shellac,used in shipbuilding.
GLUEPOT
A utensil for melting glue, consisting of an inner pot holdingthe glue, immersed in an outer one containing water which is heatedto soften the glue.
GLUER
One who cements with glue.
GLUEY
Viscous; glutinous; of the nature of, or like, glue.
GLUEYNESS
Viscidity.
GLUISH
Somewhat gluey. Sherwood.
GLUM
Sullenness. [Obs.] Skelton.
GLUMACEOUS
Having glumes; consisting of glumes.
GLUMAL
Characterized by a glume, or having the nature of a glume.
GLUME
The bracteal covering of the flowers or seeds of grain andgrasses; esp., an outer husk or bract of a spikelt. Gray.
GLUMLY
In a glum manner; sullenly; moodily.
GLUMMY
dark; gloomy; dismal. [Obs.]
GLUMNESS
Moodiness; sullenness.
GLUMP
To manifest sullenness; to sulk. [Colloq.]
GLUMPY
Glum; sullen; sulky. [Colloq.] "He was glumpy enough." T. Hook.
GLUNCH
Frowning; sulky; sullen. Sir W. Scott.-- n.
GLUT
To eat gluttonously or to satiety.Like three horses that have broken fence, And glutted all night longbreast-deep in corn. Tennyson.
GLUTACONIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, an acid intermediate betweenglutaric and aconitic acids.
GLUTAEUS
The great muscle of the buttock in man and most mammals, andthe corresponding muscle in many lower animals.
GLUTAMIC
Of or pertaining to gluten. Glutamic acid, a nitrogenousorganic acid obtained from certain albuminoids, as gluten; -- calledalso amido-glutaric acid.C5H9NO4.
GLUTARIC
Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid so called; as,glutaric ethers. Glutaric acid, an organic acid obtained as a whitecrystalline substance, isomeric with pyrotartaric acid; -- calledalso normal pyrotartaric acid.
GLUTAZINE
A nitrogenous substance, forming a heavy, sandy powder, whiteor nearly so. It is a derivative of pyridine.
GLUTEAL
Pertaining to, or in the region of, the glutรฆus.
GLUTEN
The viscid, tenacious substance which gives adhesiveness todough.
GLUTEUS
Same as Glutรฆus.
GLUTINATE
To unite with glue; to cement; to stick together. Bailey.
GLUTINATION
The act of uniting with glue; sticking together.
GLUTINATIVE
Having the quality of cementing; tenacious; viscous; glutinous.
GLUTINOSITY
The quality of being glutinous; viscousness. [R.]
GLUTINOUS
Havig a moist and adhesive or sticky surface, as a leaf orgland.
GLUTINOUSNESS
The quality of being glutinous.
GLUTTON
A carnivorous mammal (Gulo luscus), of the family Mustelidรฆ,about the size of a large badger. It was formerly believed to beinordinately voracious, whence the name; the wolverene. It is anative of the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia. Gluttonbird (Zoรถl.), the giant fulmar (Ossifraga gigantea); -- called alsoMother Carey's goose, and mollymawk.
GLUTTONISH
Gluttonous; greedy. Sir P. Sidney.
GLUTTONIZE
To eat to excess; to eat voraciously; to gormandize. Hallywell.
GLUTTONOUS
Given to gluttony; eating to excess; indulging the appetite;voracious; as, a gluttonous age.-- Glut"ton*ous*ly, adv.-- Glut"ton*ous*ness, n.
GLUTTONY
Excess in eating; extravagant indulgence of the appetite forfood; voracity.Their sumptuous gluttonies, and gorgeous feasts. Milton.
GLYCERATE
A salt of glyceric acid.
GLYCERIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, glycerin. Glyceric acid(Chem.), an organic acid, obtained by the partial oxidation ofglycerin, as a thick liquid. It is a hydroxyl derivative of propionicacid, and has both acid and alcoholic properties.
GLYCERIDE
A compound ether (formed from glycerin). Some glycerides existready formed as natural fats, others are produced artificially.
GLYCERITE
A medicinal preparation made by mixing or dissolving asubstance in glycerin.
GLYCEROL
Same as Glycerin.
GLYCEROLE
Same as Glycerite.
GLYCERYL
A compound radical, C3H5, regarded as the essential radical ofglycerin. It is metameric with allyl. Called also propenyl.
GLYCIDE
A colorless liquid, obtained from certain derivatives ofglycerin, and regarded as a partially dehydrated glycerin; -- calledalso glycidic alcohol.
GLYCIDIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, glycide; as, glycidic acid.
GLYCIN
Same as Glycocoll.
GLYCOCHOLATE
A salt of glycocholic acid; as, sodium glycocholate.
GLYCOCHOLIC
Pertaining to, or composed of, glycocoll and cholic acid.Glycocholic acid (Physiol. Chem.), a conjugate acid, composed ofglycocoll and cholic acid, present in bile in the form of a sodiumsalt. The acid commonly forms a resinous mass, but can becrystallized in long, white needles.
GLYCOCIN
Same as Glycocoll.
GLYCOCOLL
A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, with a sweet taste,formed from hippuric acid by boiling with hydrochloric acid, andpresent in bile united with cholic acid. It is also formed fromgelatin by decomposition with acids. Chemically, it is amido-aceticacid. Called also glycin, and glycocin.
GLYCOGEN
A white, amorphous, tasteless substance resembling starch,soluble in water to an opalescent fluid. It is found abundantly inthe liver of most animals, and in small quantity in other organs andtissues, particularly in the embryo. It is quickly changed into sugarwhen boiled with dilute sulphuric or hydrochloric acid, and also bythe action of amylolytic ferments.
GLYCOGENIC
Pertaining to, or caused by, glycogen; as, the glycogenicfunction of the liver.
GLYCOLIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, glycol; as, glycolic ether;glycolic acid. Glycolic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, foundnaturally in unripe grapes and in the leaves of the wild grape(Ampelopsis quinquefolia), and produced artificially in many ways, asby the oxidation of glycol, -- whence its name. It is a sirupy, orwhite crystalline, substance, HO.CH2.CO2H, has the properties both ofan alcohol and an acid, and is a type of the hydroxy acids; -- calledalso hydroxyacetic acid.
GLYCOLIDE
A white amorphous powder, C4H4O, obtained by heating anddehydrating glycolic acid. [Written also glycollide.]
GLYCOLURIC
Pertaining to, derived from, glycol and urea; as, glycoluricacid, which is called also hydantoic acid.
GLYCOLURIL
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, obtained by thereduction of allantoรฏn.
GLYCOLYL
A divalent, compound radical, CO.CH2, regarded as the essentialradical of glycolic acid, and a large series of related compounds.
GLYCONIAN
Glyconic.
GLYCONIC
Consisting of a spondee, a choriamb, and a pyrrhic; -- appliedto a kind of verse in Greek and Latin poetry.-- n. (Pros.)
GLYCONIN
An emulsion of glycerin and the yolk of eggs, used as anointment, as a vehicle for medicines, etc.
GLYCOSE
One of a class of carbohydrates having from three to nine atomsof carbon in the molecules and having the constitution either of analdehyde alcohol or of a ketone alcohol. Most glycoses have hydrogenand oxygen present in the proportion to form water, while the numberof carbon atoms is usually equal to the number of atoms of oxygen.
GLYCOSINE
An organic base, C6H6N4, produced artificially as a white,crystalline powder, by the action of ammonia on glyoxal.
GLYCOSOMETER
An apparatus for determining the amount of sugar in diabeticurine.
GLYCOSURIA
Same as Gluoosuria.
GLYCYRRHIZA
A genus of papilionaceous herbaceous plants, one species ofwhich (G. glabra), is the licorice plant, the roots of which have abittersweet mucilaginous taste.
GLYCYRRHIZIMIC
From, or pertaining to, glycyrrhizin; as, glycyrrhizimic acid.
GLYCYRRHIZIN
A glucoside found in licorice root (Glycyrrhiza), in monesiabark (Chrysophyllum), in the root of the walnut, etc., and extractedas a yellow, amorphous powder, of a bittersweet taste.
GLYOXAL
A white, amorphous, deliquescent powder, (CO.H)2, obtained bythe partial oxidation of glycol. It is a double aldehyde, betweenglycol and oxalic acid.
GLYOXALIC
Pertaining to, or designating, an aldehyde acid, intermediatebetween glycol and oxalic acid. [Written also glyoxylic.]
GLYOXALINE
A white, crystalline, organic base, C3H4N2, produced by theaction of ammonia on glyoxal, and forming the origin of a large classof derivatives hence, any one of the series of which glyoxaline is atype; -- called also oxaline.
GLYOXIME
A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, produced by theaction of hydroxylamine on glyoxal, and belonging to the class ofoximes; also, any one of a group of substances resembling glyoximeproper, and of which it is a type. See Oxime.
GLYPH
A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph.
GLYPHIC
Of or pertaining to sculpture or carving of any sort, esp. toglyphs.
GLYPHOGRAPH
A plate made by glyphography, or an impression taken from sucha plate.
GLYPHOGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to glyphography.
GLYPHOGRAPHY
A process similar to etching, in which, by means of voltaicelectricity, a raised copy of a drawing is made, so that it can beused to print from.
GLYPTIC
Figured; marked as with figures.
GLYPTICS
The art of engraving on precious stones.
GLYPTODON
An extinct South American quaternary mammal, allied to thearmadillos. It was as large as an ox, was covered with tessellatedscales, and had fluted teeth. Owen.
GLYPTODONT
One of a family (glyptodontidรฆ) of extinct South Americanedentates, of which Glyptodon is the type. About twenty species areknown.
GLYPTOGRAPHIC
Relating to glyptography, or the art of engraving on preciousstones. [R.]
GLYPTOGRAPHY
The art or process of engraving on precious stones. [R.]
GLYPTOTHECA
A building or room devoted to works of sculpture.
GLYSTER
Same as Clyster.
GMELINITE
A rhombohedral zeolitic mineral, related in form andcomposition to chabazite.
GNAPHALIUM
A genus of composite plants with white or colored dry andpersistent involucres; a kind of everlasting.
GNAR
A knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; --written also gnarr. [Archaic]He was . . . a thick gnarre. Chaucer.
GNARL
To growl; to snarl.And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first. Shak.
GNARLED
Knotty; full of knots or gnarls; twisted; crossgrained.The unwedgeable and gnarlรฉd oak. Shak.
GNARLY
Full of knots; knotty; twisted; crossgrained.
GNASH
To strike together, as in anger or pain; as, to gnash theteeth.
GNASHINGLY
With gnashing.
GNAT
A blood-sucking dipterous fly, of the genus Culex, undergoing ametamorphosis in water. The females have a proboscis armed withneedlelike organs for penetrating the skin of animals. These arewanting in the males. In America they are generally calledmosquitoes. See Mosquito.
GNATHIC
Of or pertaining to the jaw. Gnathic index, in a skull, theratio of the distance from the middle of the nasofrontal suture tothe basion (taken equal to 100), to the distance from the basion tothe middle of the front edge of the upper jaw; -- called alsoalveolar index.Skulls with the gnathic index below 98 are orthognathous, from 98 to103 mesognathous, and above 103 are prognathous. Flower.
GNATHIDIUM
The ramus of the lower jaw of a bird as far as it is naked; --commonly used in the plural.
GNATHITE
Any one of the mouth appendages of the Arthropoda. They areknown as mandibles, maxillรฆ, and maxillipeds.
GNATHOPOD
A gnathopodite or maxilliped. See Maxilliped.
GNATHOPODITE
Any leglike appendage of a crustacean, when modified wholly, orin part, to serve as a jaw, esp. one of the maxillipeds.
GNATHOSTEGITE
One of a pair of broad plates, developed from the outermaxillipeds of crabs, and forming a cover for the other mouth organs.
GNATHOSTOMA
A comprehensive division of vertebrates, including all thathave distinct jaws, in contrast with the leptocardians andmarsipobranchs (Cyclostoma), which lack them. [Written alsoGnathostomata.]
GNATHOTHECA
The horney covering of the lower mandible of a bird.
GNATLING
A small gnat.
GNATWORM
The aquatic larva of a gnat; -- called also, colloquially,wiggler.
GNAW
To use the teeth in biting; to bite with repeated effort, as ineating or removing with the teethsomething hard, unwiedly, orunmanageable.I might well, like the spaniel, gnaw upon the chain that ties me. SirP. Sidney.
GNAWER
A rodent.
GNEISS
A crystalline rock, consisting, like granite, of quartz,feldspar, and mica, but having these materials, especially the mica,arranged in planes, so that it breaks rather easily into coarse slabsor flags. Hornblende sometimes takes the place of the mica, and it isthen called hornblendic or syenitic gneiss. Similar varieties ofrelated rocks are also called gneiss.
GNEISSIC
Relating to, or resembling, gneiss; consisting of gneiss.
GNEISSOID
Resembling gneiss; having some of the characteristics ofgneiss; -- applied to rocks of an intermediate character betweengranite and gneiss, or mica slate and gneiss.
GNEISSOSE
Having the structure of gneiss.
GNEW
imp. of Gnaw. Chaucer.
GNIDE
To rub; to bruise; to break in pieces. [Obs.]
GNOF
Churl; curmudgeon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GNOME
A small owl (Glaucidium gnoma) of the Western United States.
GNOMICAL
Gnomonical. Boyle.
GNOMICALLY
In a gnomic, didactic, or sententious manner.
GNOMOLOGY
A collection of, or a treatise on, maxims, grave sentences, orreflections. [Obs.] Milton.
GNOMON
The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of theday. It is usually set parallel to the earth's axis.
GNOMONICALLY
According to the principles of the gnomonic projection.
GNOMONICS
The art or science of dialing, or of constructing dials to showthe hour of the day by the shadow of a gnomon.
GNOMONIST
One skilled in gnomonics. Boyle.
GNOMONOLOGY
A treatise on gnomonics.
GNOSCOPINE
An alkaloid existing in small quantities in opium.
GNOSIS
The deeper wisdom; knowledge of spiritual truth, such as wasclaimed by the Gnostics.
GNOSTIC
Of or pertaining to Gnosticism or its adherents; as, theGnostic heresy.
GNOSTICISM
The system of philosophy taught by the Gnostics.
GNOW
Gnawed. Chaucer.
GNU
One of two species of large South African antelopes of thegenus Catoblephas, having a mane and bushy tail, and curved horns inboth sexes. [Written also gnoo.]
GO
Gone. Chaucer.
GO-BETWEEN
An intermediate agent; a broker; a procurer; -- usually in adisparaging sense. Shak.
GO-BY
A passing without notice; intentional neglect; thrusting away;a shifting off; adieu; as, to give a proposal the go-by.Some songs to which we have given the go-by. Prof. Wilson.
GO-OUT
A sluice in embankments against the sea, for letting out theland waters, when the tide is out. [Written also gowt.]
GOA
A species of antelope (Procapra picticauda), inhabiting Thibet.
GOA POWDER
A bitter powder (also called araroba) found in the interspacesof the wood of a Brazilian tree (Andira araroba) and used as amedicine. It is the material from which chrysarobin is obtained.
GOAD
A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, anynecessity that urges or stimulates.The daily goad urging him to the daily toil. Macaulay.
GOAF
That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partiallyor wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob. To work the goaf or gob, to remove the pillars of mineral matterpreviously left to support the roof, and replace them with props.Ure.
GOAR
Same as lst Gore.
GOARISH
Patched; mean. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
GOAT
A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several speciesand varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus), which is raisedfor its milk, flesh, and skin.
GOATEE
A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which isallowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat.
GOATFISH
A fish of the genus Upeneus, inhabiting the Gulf of Mexico. Itis allied to the surmullet.
GOATHERD
One who tends goats. Spenser.
GOATISH
Characteristic of a goat; goatlike.Give your chaste body up to the embraces Of goatish lust. Massinger.-- Goat"ish*ly, adv.-- Goat"ish*ness, n.
GOATLIKE
Like a goat; goatish.
GOATSKIN
The skin of a goat, or leather made from it.-- a.
GOATSUCKER
One of several species of insectivorous birds, belonging toCaprimulgus and allied genera, esp. the European species (CaprimulgusEuropรฆus); -- so called from the mistaken notion that it sucks goats.The European species is also goat-milker, goat owl, goat chaffer,fern owl, night hawk, nightjar, night churr, churr-owl, gnat hawk,and dorhawk .
GOAVES
Old workings. See Goaf. Raymond.
GOB
Same as Goaf.
GOBANG
A Japanese game, played on a checkerboard, in which the objectof the game is to be the first in placing five pieces, or men, in arow in any direction.
GOBBET
A mouthful; a lump; a small piece. Spenser.[He] had broken the stocks to small gobbets. Wyclif.
GOBBETLY
In pieces. [Obs.] Huloet.
GOBBLE
A noise made in the throat.Ducks and geese . . . set up a discordant gobble. Mrs. Gore.
GOBBLER
A turkey cock; a bubbling Jock.
GOBELIN
Pertaining to tapestry produced in the so-called Gobelin works,which have been maintained by the French Government since 1667.
GOBEMOUCHE
Literally, a fly swallower; hence, once who keeps his mouthopen; a boor; a silly and credulous person.
GOBET
See Gobbet. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOBIOID
Like, or pertaining to, the goby, or the genus Gobius.-- n.
GOBLET
A kind of cup or drinking vessel having a foot or standard, butwithout a handle.We love not loaded boards and goblets crowned. Denham.
GOBLIN
An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; afrightful phantom; a gnome.To whom the goblin, full of wrath, replied. Milton.
GOBLINE
One of the ropes or chains serving as stays for the dolphinstriker or the bowsprit; -- called also gobrope and gaubline.
GOBLINIZE
To transform into a goblin. [R.] Lowell.
GOBSTICK
A stick or device for removing the hook from a fish's gullet.
GOBY
One of several species of small marine fishes of the genusGobius and allied genera.
GOCART
A framework moving on casters, designed to support childrenwhile learning to walk.
GOD
Good. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOD-FEARING
Having a reverential and loving feeling towards God; religious.A brave good-fearing man. Tennyson.
GODCHILD
One for whom a person becomes sponsor at baptism, and whom hepromises to see educated as a Christian; a godson or goddaughter. SeeGodfather.
GODDAUGHTER
A female for whom one becomes sponsor at baptism.
GODE
Good. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GODE-YEAR
The venereal disease; -- often used as a mild oath. [Obs.]Shak.
GODELICH
Goodly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GODFATHER
A man who becomes sponsor for a child at baptism, and makeshimself a surety for its Christian training and instruction.There shall be for every Male-child to be baptized, when they can behad, two Godfathers and one Godmother; and for every Female, oneGodfather and two Godmothers; and Parents shall be admitted asSponsors, if it is desired. Book of Common Prayer (Prot. Episc. Ch.,U. S. ).
GODHOOD
Divine nature or essence; deity; godhead.
GODILD
A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless. Shak.
GODLESS
Having, or acknowledging, no God; without reverence for God;impious; wicked.-- God"less*ly, adv.-- God"less*ness, n.
GODLIKE
Resembling or befitting a god or God; divine; hence,preeminently good; as, godlike virtue.-- God"like`ness, n.
GODLILY
Righteously. H. Wharton.
GODLINESS
Careful observance of, or conformity to, the laws of God; thestate or quality of being godly; piety.Godliness is profitable unto all things. 1 Tim. iv. 8.
GODLING
A diminutive god. Dryden.
GODLY
Pious; reverencing God, and his character and laws; obedient tothe commands of God from love for, and reverence of, his character;conformed to God's law; devout; righteous; as, a godly life.For godly sorrow worketh repentance. 2 Cor. vii. 10.
GODLYHEAD
Goodness. [Obs.] Spenser.
GODMOTHER
A woman who becomes sponsor for a child in baptism. SeeGodfather
GODOWN
A warehouse. [East Indies]
GODROON
An ornament produced by notching or carving a rounded molding.
GODSEND
Something sent by God; an unexpected acquisiton or piece ofgood fortune.
GODSHIP
The rank or character of a god; deity; divinity; a god orgoddess.O'er hills and dales their godships came. Prior.
GODSIB
A gossip. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GODSON
A male for whom one has stood sponsor in baptism. SeeGodfather.
GODSPEED
Success; prosperous journeying; -- a contraction of the phrase,"God speed you." [Written also as two separate words.]Receive him not into house, neither bid him God speed. 2 John 10.
GODWARD
Toward God. 2 Cor. iii. 4.
GODWIT
One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of thegenus Limosa, and family Tringidรฆ. The European black-tailed godwit(Limosa limosa), the American marbled godwit (L. fedoa), theHudsonian godwit (L. hรฆmastica), and others, are valued as gamebirds. Called also godwin.
GOEL
Yellow. [Obs.] Tusser.
GOELAND
A white tropical tern (Cygis candida).
GOEMIN
A complex mixture of several substances extracted from Irishmoss.
GOEN
p. p. of Go. [Obs.]
GOER
One who, or that which, goes; a runner or walker; as:(a) A foot. [Obs.] Chapman.(b) A horse, considered in reference to his gait; as, a good goer; asafe goer.This antechamber has been filled with comers and goers. Macaulay.
GOETY
Invocation of evil spirits; witchcraft. [Obs.] Hallywell.
GOFF
A silly clown. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
GOFFER
To plait, flute, or crimp. See Gauffer. Clarke.
GOG
Haste; ardent desire to go. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
GOGGLE
To roll the eyes; to stare.And wink and goggle like an owl. Hudibras.
GOGGLE-EYED
Having prominent and distorted or rolling eyes. Ascham.
GOGGLED
Prominent; staring, as the eye.
GOGGLER
A carangoid oceanic fish (Trachurops crumenophthalmus), havingvery large and prominent eyes; -- called also goggle-eye, big-eyedscad, and cicharra.
GOGLET
See Gurglet.
GOING
Course of life; behavior; doings; ways.His eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings. Jobxxxiv. 21.Going barrel. (Horology) (a) A barrel containing the mainspring, andhaving teeth on its periphery to drive the train. (b) A device formaintaining a force to drive the train while the timepiece is beingwound up.-- Going forth. (Script.) (a) Outlet; way of exit. "Every goingforth of the sanctuary." Ezek. xliv. 5. (b) A limit; a border. "Thegoing forth thereof shall be from the south to Kadesh-barnea." Num.xxxiv. 4.-- Going out, or Goings out. (Script.) (a) The utmost extremity orlimit. "The border shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of itshall be at the salt sea." Num. xxxiv. 12. (b) Departure orjourneying. "And Moses wrote their goings out according to theirjourneys." Num. xxxiii. 2.-- Goings on, behavior; actions; conduct; -- usually in a bad sense.
GOITROUS
Pertaining to the goiter; affected with the goiter; of thenature of goiter or bronchocele.Let me not be understood as insinuating that the inhabitants ingeneral are either goitrous or idiots. W. Coxe.
GOLD
A metallic element, constituting the most precious metal usedas a common commercial medium of exchange. It has a characteristicyellow color, is one of the heaviest substances known (specificgravity 19.32), is soft, and very malleable and ductile. It is quiteunalterable by heat, moisture, and most corrosive agents, andtherefore well suited for its use in coin and jewelry. Symbol Au(Aurum). Atomic weight 196.7.
GOLD-BEATEN
Gilded. [Obs.]
GOLD-BEATING
The art or process of reducing gold to extremely thin leaves,by beating with a hammer. Ure.
GOLD-BOUND
Encompassed with gold.
GOLD-HAMMER
The yellow-hammer.
GOLDCREST
The European golden-crested kinglet (Regulus cristatus, or R.regulus); -- called also golden-crested wren, and golden wren. Thename is also sometimes applied to the American golden-crestedkinglet. See Kinglet.
GOLDCUP
The cuckoobud.
GOLDEN STATE
California; -- a nickname alluding to its rich gold deposits.
GOLDEN-EYE
A duck (Glaucionetta clangula), found in Northern Europe, Asia,and America. The American variety (var. Americana) is larger. Calledwhistler, garrot, gowdy, pied widgeon, whiteside, curre, and doucker.Barrow's golden-eye of America (G. Islandica) is less common.
GOLDEN-ROD
A tall herb (Solidago Virga-aurea), bearing yellow flowers in agraceful elongated cluster. The name is common to all the species ofthe genus Solidago. Golden-rod tree (Bot.), a shrub (BoseaYervamora), a native of the Canary Isles.
GOLDENLY
In golden terms or a golden manner; splendidly; delightfully.[Obs.] Shak.
GOLDFINNY
One of two or more species of European labroid fishes(Crenilabrus melops, and Ctenolabrus rupestris); -- called alsogoldsinny, and goldney.
GOLDILOCKS
Same as Goldylocks.
GOLDLESS
Destitute of gold.
GOLDNEY
See Gilthead.
GOLDSEED
Dog's-tail grass.
GOLDSINNY
See Goldfinny.
GOLDTIT
See Verdin.
GOLDYLOCKS
A plant of several species of the genus Chrysocoma; -- socalled from the tufts of yellow flowers which terminate the stems;also, the Ranunculus auricomus, a kind of buttercup.
GOLET
The gullet. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOLF
A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked atthe lower end. He who drives the ball into each of a series of smallholes in the ground and brings it into the last hole with the feweststrokes is the winner. [Scot.] Strutt.
GOLFER
One who plays golf. [Scot.]
GOLGOTHA
Calvary. See the Note under Calvary.
GOLIARD
A buffoon in the Middle Ages, who attended rich men's tables tomake sport for the guests by ribald stories and songs.
GOLIARDERY
The satirical or ribald poetry of the Goliards. Milman.
GOLIATH BEETLE
Any species of Goliathus, a genus of very large and handsomeAfrican beetles.
GOLL
A hand, paw, or claw. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney. B. Jonson.
GOLOE-SHOE
A galoche.
GOLORE
See Galore.
GOLOSHE
See Galoche.
GOLYARDEYS
A buffoon. See Gollard. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOMAN
A husband; a master of a family. [Obs.]
GOMBO
See Gumbo.
GOME
A man. [Obs.] P. Plowman.
GOMER
A Hebrew measure. See Homer.
GOMMELIN
See Dextrin.
GOMPHIASIS
A disease of the teeth, which causes them to loosen and fallout of their sockets.
GOMPHOSIS
A form of union or immovable articulation where a hard part isreceived into the cavity of a bone, as the teeth into the jaws.
GOMUTI
A black, fibrous substance resembling horsehair, obtained fromthe leafstalks of two kinds of palms, Metroxylon Sagu, and Arengasaccharifera, of the Indian islands. It is used for making cordage.Called also ejoo.
GON
imp. & p. p. of Go. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GONAD
One of the masses of generative tissue primitively alike inboth sexes, but giving rise to either an ovary or a testis; agenerative gland; a germ gland. Wiedersheim.
GONAKIE
An African timber tree (Acacia Adansonii).
GONANGIUM
See Gonotheca.
GONDOLET
A small gondola. T. Moore.
GONDOLIER
A man who rows a gondola.
GONE
p. p. of Go.
GONENESS
A state of exhaustion; faintness, especially as resulting fromhunger. [Colloq. U. S.]
GONFALONIER
He who bears the gonfalon; a standard bearer; as:(a) An officer at Rome who bears the standard of the Church.(b) The chief magistrate of any one of several republics in mediรฆvealItaly.(c) A Turkish general, and standard keeper.
GONG
A privy or jakes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gong farmer, Gong man, acleaner of privies. [Obs.]
GONGORISM
An affected elegance or euphuism of style, for which theSpanish poet Gongora y Argote (1561-1627), among others of his time,was noted.
GONIATITE
One of an extinct genus of fossil cephalopods, allied to theAmmonites. The earliest forms are found in the Devonian formation,the latest, in the Triassic.
GONIDIAL
Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia.
GONIDIUM
A special groove or furrow at one or both angles of the mouthof many Anthozoa.
GONIMIA
Bluish green granules which occur in certain lichens, asCollema, Peltigera, etc., and which replace the more usual gonidia.
GONIMOUS
Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia or gonimia, as that partof a lichen which contains the green or chlorophyll-bearing cells.
GONIOMETER
An instrument for measuring angles, especially the angles ofcrystals, or the inclination of planes. Contact, or Hand, goniometer,a goniometer having two movable arms (ab, cd), between which (at ab)the faces of the crystals are placed. These arms turn about a fixedpoint, which is the center of the graduated circle or semicircle uponwhich the angle is read off.-- Reflecting goniometer, an instrument for measuring the angles ofcrystals by determining through what angular space the crystal mustbe turned so that two rays reflected from two surfaces successivelyshall have the same direction; -- called also Wollaston's goniometer,from the inventor.
GONIOMETRY
The art of measuring angles; trigonometry.
GONOBLASTID
A reproductive bud of a hydroid; a simple gonophore.
GONOBLASTIDIUM
A blastostyle.
GONOCALYX
The bell of a sessile gonozooid.
GONOCOCCUS
A vegetable microรถrganism of the genus Micrococcus, occurringin the secretion in gonorrhea. It is believed by some to constitutethe cause of this disease.
GONOPH
A pickpocket or thief. [Eng. Slang] Dickens.
GONOPHORE
A sexual zooid produced as a medusoid bud upon a hydroid,sometimes becoming a free hydromedusa, sometimes remaining attached.See Hydroidea, and Illusts. of Athecata, Campanularian, and Gonosome.
GONOSOME
The reproductive zooids of a hydroid colony, collectively.
GONOTHECA
A capsule developed on certain hydroids (Thecaphora), inclosingthe blastostyle upon which the medusoid buds or gonophores aredeveloped; -- called also gonangium, and teleophore. See Hydroidea,and Illust. of Campanularian.
GONOZOOID
A sexual zooid, or medusoid bud of a hydroid; a gonophore. SeeHydroidea, and Illust. of Campanularian.
GONYDIAL
Pertaining to the gonys of a bird's beak.
GONYS
The keel or lower outline of a bird's bill, so far as themandibular rami are united.
GOOBER
A peanut. [Southern U. S.]
GOOD
Wares; commodities; chattels; -- formerly used in the singularin a collective sense. In law, a comprehensive name for almost allpersonal property as distinguished from land or real property.Wharton.He hath made us spend much good. Chaucer.Thy lands and goods Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate Unto thestate of Venice. Shak.Dress goods, Dry goods, etc. See in the Vocabulary.-- Goods engine, a freight locomotive. [Eng.] -- Goods train, afreight train. [Eng.] -- Goods wagon, a freight car [Eng.] See theNote under Car, n., 2.
GOOD NOW
An exclamation of wonder, surprise, or entreaty. [Obs.] Shak.
GOOD-DEN
A form of salutation. [Obs.] Shak.
GOOD-FELLOWSHIP
Agreeable companionship; companionableness.
GOOD-HUMORED
Having a cheerful spirit and demeanor; good-tempered. See Good-natured.
GOOD-HUMOREDLY
With a cheerful spirit; in a cheerful or good-tempered manner.
GOOD-LOOKING
Handsome.
GOOD-NATURED
Naturally mild in temper; not easily provoked.
GOOD-NATUREDLY
With maldness of temper.
GOOD-TEMPERED
Having a good temper; not easily vexed. See Good-natured.
GOODGEON
Same as Gudgeon, 5.
GOODISH
Rather good than the contrary; not actually bad; tolerable.Goodish pictures in rich frames. Walpole.
GOODLESS
Having no goods. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOODLICH
Goodly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOODLINESS
Beauty of form; grace; elegance; comeliness.Her goodliness was full of harmony to his eyes. Sir P. Sidney.
GOODLY
Excellently. [Obs.] Spenser.
GOODNESS
The quality of being good in any of its various senses;excellence; virtue; kindness; benevolence; as, the goodness oftimber, of a soil, of food; goodness of character, of disposition, ofconduct, etc.
GOODS
See Good, n., 3.
GOODSHIP
Favor; grace. [Obs.] Gower.
GOODWIFE
The mistress of a house. [Archaic] Robynson (More's Utopia).
GOODY
An American fish; the lafayette or spot.
GOODY-GOODY
Mawkishly or weakly good; exhibiting goodness with silliness.[Colloq.]
GOODYSHIP
The state or quality of a goody or goodwife [Jocose] Hudibraus.
GOOSANDER
A species of merganser (M. merganser) of Northern Europe andAmerica; -- called also merganser, dundiver, sawbill, sawneb,shelduck, and sheldrake. See Merganser.
GOOSE EGG
In games, a zero; a score or record of naught; -- so named inallusion to the egglike outline of the zero sign 0. Called also duckegg. [Slang]
GOOSE-RUMPED
Having the tail set low and buttocks that fall away sharplyfrom the croup; -- said of certain horses.
GOOSEBERRY
Any thorny shrub of the genus Ribes; also, the edible berriesof such shrub. There are several species, of which Ribes Grossulariais the one commonly cultivated.
GOOSEFISH
See Angler.
GOOSEFOOT
A genus of herbs (Chenopodium) mostly annual weeds; pigweed.
GOOSEWING
One of the clews or lower corners of a course or a topsail whenthe middle part or the rest of the sail is furled.
GOOSISH
Like a goose; foolish. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOOST
Ghost; spirit. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOOT
A goat. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOPHER STATE
Minnesota; -- a nickname alluding to the abundance of gophers.
GOPHER WOOD
A species of wood used in the construction of Noah's ark. Gen.vi. 14.
GOR-BELLIED
Bog-bellied. [Obs.]
GOR-BELLY
A prominent belly; a big-bellied person. [Obs.]
GORACCO
A paste prepared from tobacco, and smoked in hookahs in WesternIndia.
GORAL
An Indian goat antelope (Nemorhedus goral), resembling thechamois.
GORAMY
Same as Gourami.
GORCE
A pool of water to keep fish in; a wear. [Obs.]
GORCOCK
The moor cock, or red grouse. See Grouse. [Prov. Eng.]
GORCROW
The carrion crow; -- called also gercrow. [Prov. Eng.]
GORD
An instrument of gaming; a sort of dice. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
GORDIACEA
A division of nematoid worms, including the hairworms or haireels (Gordius and Mermis). See Gordius, and Illustration in Appendix.
GORDIAN
Pertaining to the Gordiacea.
GORDIUS
A genus of long, slender, nematoid worms, parasitic in insectsuntil near maturity, when they leave the insect, and live in water,in which they deposit their eggs; -- called also hair eel, hairworm,and hair snake, from the absurd, but common and widely diffused,notion that they are metamorphosed horsehairs.
GORE
One of the abatements. It is made of two curved lines, meetingin an acute angle in the fesse point.
GOREBILL
The garfish. [Prov. Eng.]
GORFLY
A dung fly.
GORGE
A concave molding; a cavetto. Gwilt.
GORGED
Bearing a coronet or ring about the neck.
GORGELET
A small gorget, as of a humming bird.
GORGEOUS
Imposing through splendid or various colors; showy; fine;magnificent.Cloud-land, gorgeous land. Coleridge.Gogeous as the sun at midsummer. Shak.-- Gor"geous*ly, adv.-- Gor"geous*ness, n.
GORGERIN
In some columns, that part of the capital between thetermination of the shaft and the annulet of the echinus, or the spacebetween two neck moldings; -- called also neck of the capital, andhypotrachelium. See Illust. of Column.
GORGET
A crescent-shaped, colored patch on the neck of a bird ormammal. Gorget hummer (Zoรถl.), a humming bird of the genus Trochilus.See Rubythroat.
GORGON
One of three fabled sisters, Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa, withsnaky hair and of terrific aspect, the sight of whom turned thebeholder to stone. The name is particularly given to Medusa.
GORGONACEA
See Gorgoniacea.
GORGONEAN
See Gorgonian, 1.
GORGONEION
A mask carved in imitation of a Gorgon's head. Elmes.
GORGONIACEA
One of the principal divisions of Alcyonaria, including thoseforms which have a firm and usually branched axis, covered with aporous crust, or c
GORGONIAN
Pertaining to the Gorgoniacea; as, gorgonian coral.
GORGONIZE
To have the effect of a Gorgon upon; to turn into stone; topetrify. [R.]
GORGONZOLA
A kind of Italian pressed milk cheese; -- so called from avillage near Milan.
GORHEN
The female of the gorcock.
GORILLA
A large, arboreal, anthropoid ape of West Africa. It is largerthan a man, and is remarkable for its massive skeleton and powerfulmuscles, which give it enormous strength. In some respects itsanatomy, more than that of any other ape, except the chimpanzee,resembles that of man.
GORM
Axle grease. See Gome. [Prov. Eng.]
GORMA
The European cormorant.
GORMAND
A greedy or ravenous eater; a luxurious feeder; a gourmand.
GORMANDER
See Gormand, n. [Obs.]
GORMANDISM
Gluttony.
GORMANDIZE
To eat greedily; to swallow voraciously; to feed ravenously orlike a glutton. Shak.
GORMANDIZER
A greedy, voracious eater; a gormand; a glutton.
GOROON SHELL
A large, handsome, marine, univalve shell (Triton femorale).
GORSE
Furze. See Furze.The common, overgrown with fern, and rough With prickly gorse.Cowper.Gorse bird (Zoรถl.), the European linnet; -- called also gorsehatcher. [Prov. Eng.] -- Gorse chat (Zoรถl.), the winchat.-- Gorse duck, the corncrake; -- called also grass drake, landdrake, and corn drake.
GOSHAWK
Any large hawk of the genus Astur, of which many species andvarieties are known. The European (Astur palumbarius) and theAmerican (A. atricapillus) are the best known species. They are notedfor their powerful flight, activity, and courage. The Australiangoshawk (A. Novรฆ-Hollandiรฆ) is pure white.
GOSHERD
One who takes care of geese.
GOSLET
One of several species of pygmy geese, of the genus Nettepus.They are about the size of a teal, and inhabit Africa, India, andAustralia.
GOSPEL
Accordant with, or relating to, the gospel; evangelical; as,gospel righteousness. Bp. Warburton.
GOSS
Gorse. [Obs.] Shak.
GOSSAMERY
Like gossamer; flimsy.The greatest master of gossamery affectation. De Quincey.
GOSSAN
Decomposed rock, usually reddish or ferruginous (owing tooxidized pyrites), forming the upper part of a metallic vein.
GOSSANIFEROUS
Containing or producing gossan.
GOSSAT
A small British marine fish (Motella tricirrata); -- calledalso whistler and three-bearded rockling. [Prov. Eng.]
GOSSIB
A gossip. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
GOSSIP
To stand sponsor to. [Obs.] Shak.
GOSSIPER
One given to gossip. Beaconsfield.
GOSSIPREDE
The relationship between a person and his sponsors. [Obs.]
GOSSIPY
Full of, or given to, gossip.
GOSSOON
A boy; a servant. [Ireland]
GOSSYPIUM
A genus of plants which yield the cotton of the arts. Thespecies are much confused. G. herbaceum is the name given to thecommon cotton plant, while the long-stapled sea-island cotton isproduced by G. Barbadense, a shrubby variety. There are several otherkinds besides these.
GOT
imp. & p. p. of Get. See Get.
GOTE
A channel for water. [Prov. Eng.] Crose.
GOTER
a gutter. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GOTH
One of an ancient Teutonic race, who dwelt between the Elbe andthe Vistula in the early part of the Christian era, and who overranand took an important part in subverting the Roman empire.
GOTHAMIST
A wiseacre; a person deficient in wisdom; -- so called fromGotham, in Nottinghamshire, England, noted for some pleasantblunders. Bp. Morton.
GOTHIC
Of or pertaining to a style of architecture with pointedarches, steep roofs, windows large in proportion to the wall spaces,and, generally, great height in proportion to the other dimensions --prevalent in Western Europe from about 1200 to 1475 a. d. See Illust.of Abacus, and Capital.
GOTHICIZE
To make Gothic; to bring back to barbarism.
GOTTEN
p. p. of Get.
GOUACHE
A method of painting with opaque colors, which have been groundin water and mingled with a preparation of gum; also, a picture thuspainted.
GOUD
Woad. [Obs.]
GOUDRON
a small fascine or fagot, steeped in wax, pitch, and glue, usedin various ways, as for igniting buildings or works, or to lightditches and ramparts. Farrow.
GOUGE
Soft material lying between the wall of a vein aud the solidvein. Raymond.
GOUGER
See Plum Gouger.
GOUGESHELL
A sharp-edged, tubular, marine shell, of the genus Vermetus;also, the pinna. See Vermetus.
GOUJERE
The venereal disease. [Obs.]
GOULAND
See Golding.
GOULARDS EXTRACT
An aqueous solution of the subacetate of lead, used as a lotionin cases of inflammation. Goulard's cerate is a cerate containingthis extract.
GOUR
See Koulan.
GOURA
One of several species of large, crested ground pigeons of thegenus Goura, inhabiting New Guinea and adjacent islands. The QueenVictoria pigeon (Goura Victoria) and the crowned pigeon (G. coronata)are among the beat known species.
GOURAMI
A very largo East Indian freshwater fish (Osphromenus gorami),extensively reared in artificial ponds in tropical countries, andhighly valued as a food fish. Many unsuccessful efforts have beenmade to introduce it into Southern Europe. [Written also goramy.]
GOURD
A fleshy, three-celled, many-seeded fruit, as the melon,pumpkin, cucumber, etc., of the order Cucurbitaceรฆ; and especiallythe bottle gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris) which occurs in a great varietyof forms, and, when the interior part is removed, serves for bottles,dippers, cups, and other dishes.
GOURD TREE
A tree (the Crescentia Cujete, or calabash tree) of the WestIndies and Central America.
GOURDINESS
The state of being gourdy.
GOURDWORM
The fluke of sheep. See Fluke.
GOURDY
Swelled in the legs.
GOURMAND
A greedy or ravenous eater; a glutton. See Gormand.That great gourmand, fat Apicius B. Jonson.
GOURMET
A connoisseur in eating and drinking; an epicure.
GOURNET
A fish. See Gurnet.
GOUT
A constitutional disease, occurring by paroxysms. It constistsin an inflammation of the fibrous and ligamentous parts of thejoints, and almost always attacks first the great toe, next thesmaller joints, after which, it may attack the greater articulations.It is attended with various sympathettic phenomena, particularly inthe digestive organs. It may also attack internal organs, as thestomach, the intestines, etc. Dunglison.
GOUTILY
In a gouty manner.
GOUTINESS
The state of being gouty; gout.
GOVE
A mow; a rick for hay. [Obs.] Tusser.
GOVERN
To require to be in a particular case; as, a transitive verbgoverns a noun in the objective case; or to require (a particularcase); as, a transitive verb governs the objective case.
GOVERNABILITY
Governableness.
GOVERNABLE
Capable of being governed, or subjected to authority;controllable; manageable; obedient. Locke.
GOVERNABLENESS
The quality of being governable; manageableness.
GOVERNANCE
Exercise of authority; control; government; arrangement.Chaucer. J. H. Newman.
GOVERNANTE
A governess. Sir W. Scott.
GOVERNESS
A female governor; a woman invested with authority to controland direct; especially, one intrusted with the care and instructionof children, -- usually in their homes.
GOVERNING
Requiring a particular case.
GOVERNMENT
The influence of a word in regard to construction, requiringthat another word should be in a particular case.
GOVERNMENTAL
Pertaining to government; made by government; as, governmentalduties.
GOVERNOR
A pilot; a steersman. [R.]
GOVERNOR GENERAL
A governor who has lieutenant or deputy governors under him;as, the governor general of Canada, of India.
GOVERNORSHIP
The office of a governor.
GOWAN
Decomposed granite.
GOWANY
Having, abounding in, or decked with, daisies. [Scot.]Sweeter than gowany glens or new-mown hay. Ramsay.
GOWD
Gold; wealth. [Scot.]The man's the gowd for a' that. Burns.
GOWDEN
Golden. [Scot.]
GOWDIE
See Dragont. [Scot.]
GOWDNOOK
The saury pike; -- called also gofnick.
GOWK
To make a, booby of one); to stupefy. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
GOWL
To howl. [Obs.] Wyclif.
GOWNED
Dressed in a gown; clad.Gowned in pure white, that fitted to the shape. Tennyson.
GOZZARD
See Gosherd. [Prov. Eng.]
GRAAFIAN
Pertaining to, or discovered by, Regnier de Graaf, a Dutchphysician. Graafian follicles or vesicles, small cavities in whichthe ova are developed in the ovaries of mammals, and by the burstingof which they are discharged.
GRAAL
See Grail., a dish.
GRAB
A vessel used on the Malabar coast, having two or three masts.
GRABBER
One who seizes or grabs.
GRACE
The divine favor toward man; the mercy of God, as distinguishedfrom His justice; also, any benefits His mercy imparts; divine loveor pardon; a state of acceptance with God; enjoyment of the divinefavor.And if by grace, then is it no more of works. Rom. xi. 6.My grace is sufficicnt for thee. 2 Cor. xii. 9.Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Rom. v. 20.By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein westand. Rom. v.2
GRACED
Endowed with grace; beautiful; full of graces; honorable. Shak.
GRACEFUL
Displaying grace or beauty in form or action; elegant; easy;agreeable in appearance; as, a graceful walk, deportment, speaker,air, act, speech.High o'er the rest in arms the graceful Turnus rode. Dryden.-- Grace"ful*ly, adv. Grace"ful*ness, n.
GRACELESS
Slender; thin. [Obs.] Bailey.
GRACILITY
State of being gracilent; slenderness. Milman. "Youthfulgracility." W. D. Howells.
GRACIOUSNESS
Quality of being gracious.
GRADATE
To bring to a certain strength or grade of concentration; as,to gradate a saline solution.
GRADATION
A gradual passing from one tint to another or from a darker toa lighter shade, as in painting or drawing.
GRADATIONAL
By regular steps or gradations; of or pertaining to gradation.
GRADATORY
Suitable for walking; -- said of the limbs of an animal whenadapted for walking on land.
GRADE
The result of crossing a native stock with some better breed.If the crossbreed have more than three fourths of the better blood,it is called high grade. At grade, on the same level; -- said of thecrossing of a railroad with another railroad or a highway, when theyare on the same level at the point of crossing.-- Down grade, a descent, as on a graded railroad.-- Up grade, an ascent, as on a graded railroad.-- Equating for grades. See under Equate.-- Grade crossing, a crossing at grade.
GRADELY
Decent; orderly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.-- adv.
GRADER
1. One who grades, or that by means of which grading is done orfacilitate.
GRADIENT
Any member like a step, as the raised back of an altar or thelike; a set raised over another. "The gradines of the amphitheeater."Layard.
GRADINE
A toothed chised by sculptors.
GRADING
The act or method of arranging in or by grade, or of bringing,as the surface of land or a road, to the desired level or grade.
GRADINO
A step or raised shelf, as above a sideboard or altar. Cf.Superaltar, and Gradin.
GRADUAL
Proceeding by steps or degrees; advancing, step by step, as inascent or descent or from one state to another; regularlyprogressive; slow; as, a gradual increase of knowledge; a gradualdecline.Creatures animate with gradual life Of growth, sense, reason, allsummed up in man. Milton.
GRADUALITY
The state of being gradual; gradualness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
GRADUALNESS
The quality or state of being gradual; regular progression orgradation; slowness.The gradualness of this movement. M. Arnold.The gradualness of growth is a characteristic which strikes thesimplest observer. H. Drummond.
GRADUATE
To bring to a certain degree of consistency, by evaporation, asa fluid. Graduating engine, a dividing engine. See Dividing engine,under Dividing.
GRADUATED
Tapered; -- said of a bird's tail when the outer feathers areshortest, and the others successively longer. Graduated tube, bottle,cap, or glass, a vessel, usually of glass, having horizontal marksupon its sides, with figures, to indicate the amount of the contentsat the several levels.-- Graduated spring (Railroads), a combination of metallic andrubber springs.
GRADUATESHIP
State of being a graduate. Milton.
GRADUS
A dictionary of prosody, designed as an aid in writing Greek orLatin poetry.He set to work . . . without gradus or other help. T. Hughes.
GRAF
A German title of nobility, equivalent to earl in English, orcount in French. See Earl.
GRAFF
A steward; an overseer.[A prince] is nothing but a servant, overseer, or graff, and not thehead, which is a title belonging only to Christ. John Knox.
GRAFFAGE
The scarp of a ditch or moat. "To clean the graffages." MissMitford.
GRAFFER
a notary or scrivener. Bowvier.
GRAFFITI
Inscriptions, figure drawings, etc., found on the walls ofancient sepulchers or ruins, as in the Catacombs, or at Pompeii.
GRAFFITO
Production of decorative designs by scratching them through asurface of layer plaster, glazing, etc., revealing a different-colored ground; also, pottery or ware so decorated; -- chiefly usedattributively.
GRAFT
To implant a portion of (living flesh or akin) in a lesion soas to form an organic union.
GRAFTAGE
The science of grafting, including the various methods ofpractice and details of operation.
GRAFTER
An instrument by which grafting is facilitated.
GRAFTING
The act or method of weaving a cover for a ring, rope end, etc.
GRAHAM BREAD
Bread made of unbolted wheat flour. [U. S.] Bartlett.
GRAHAMITE
One who follows the dietetic system of Graham. [U. S.]
GRAIL
A book of offices in the Roman Catholic Church; a gradual.[Obs.] T. Warton.Such as antiphonals, missals, grails, processionals, etc. Strype.
GRAILLE
A halfround single-cut file or fioat, having one curved faceand one straight face, -- used by comb makers. Knight.
GRAIN
See Groan. [Obs.]
GRAINED
Having tubercles or grainlike processes, as the petals orsepals of some flowers.
GRAINFIELD
A field where grain is grown.
GRAINING
The process of separating soap from spent lye, as with salt.
GRAINY
Resembling grains; granular.
GRAIP
A dungfork. [Scot.] Burns.
GRAITH
See Greith. Chaucer.
GRAKLE
See Grackle.
GRALLAE
An order of birds which formerly included all the waders. Bylater writers it is usually restricted to the sandpipers, plovers,and allied forms; -- called also Grallatores.
GRALLATORES
See Grallรฆ.
GRALLIC
Pertaining to the Grallรฆ.
GRALLINE
Of or pertaining to the Grallรฆ.
GRALLOCH
Offal of a deer.-- v. t.
GRAM
Angry. [Obs.] Havelok, the Dane.
GRAMA GRASS
The name of several kinds of pasture grasses found in theWestern United States, esp. the Bouteloua oligostachya.
GRAMARYE
Necromancy; magic. Sir W. Scott.
GRAMASHES
Gaiters reaching to the knee; leggings.Strong gramashes, or leggings of thick gray cloth. Sir W. Scott.
GRAMERCY
A word formerly used to express thankfulness, with surprise;many thanks.Gramercy, Mammon, said the gentle knight. Spenser.
GRAMINACEOUS
Pertaining to, or resembling, the grasses; gramineous; as,graminaceous plants.
GRAMINEAL
Gramineous.
GRAMINEOUS
Like, Or pertaining to, grass. See Grass, n., 2.
GRAMINIFOLIOUS
Bearing leaves resembling those of grass.
GRAMINIVOROUS
Feeding or subsisting on grass, and the like food; -- said ofhorses, cattle, and other animals.
GRAMMALOGUE
Literally, a letter word; a word represented by a logogram; as,it, represented by |, that is, t. pitman.
GRAMMAR
To discourse according to the rules of grammar; to use grammar.[Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
GRAMMARIANISM
The principles, practices, or peculiarities of grammarians.[R.]
GRAMMARLESS
Without grammar.
GRAMMATES
Rudiments; first principles, as of grammar. [Obs.] Ford.
GRAMMATIC
Grammatical.
GRAMMATICASTER
A petty grammarian; a grammatical pedant or pretender.My noble Neophite, my little grammaticaster. B. Jonson.
GRAMMATICATION
A principle of grammar; a grammatical rule. [Obs.] Dalgarno.
GRAMMATICISM
A point or principle of grammar. Abp. Leighton.
GRAMMATICIZE
To render grammatical. Fuller.
GRAMMATIST
A petty grammarian. [R] Tooke.
GRAMME
Same as Gram the weight.
GRAMME MACHINE
A kind of dynamo-electric machine; -- so named from its Frenchinventor, M. Gramme. Knight.
GRAMOPHONE
An instrument for recording, preserving, and reproducingsounds, the record being a tracing of a phonautograph etched in somesolid material. Reproduction  is accomplished by means of a systemattached to an elastic diaphragm.
GRAMPUS
A toothed delphinoid cetacean, of the genus Grampus, esp. G.griseus of Europe and America, which is valued for its oil. It growsto be fifteen to twenty feet long; its color is gray with whitestreaks. Called also cowfish. The California grampus is G. Stearnsii.
GRANADILLA
The fruit of certain species of passion flower (esp. Passifloraquadrangularis) found in Brazil and the West Indies. It is as largeas a child's head, and is a good dessert fruit. The fruit ofPassiflora edulis is used for flavoring ices.
GRANARY
A storehouse or repository for grain, esp. after it is thrashedor husked; a cornbouse; also (Fig.), a region fertile in grain.The exhaustless granary of a world. Thomson.
GRANATE
See Garnet.
GRANATIN
Mannite; -- so called because found in the pomegranate.
GRANATITE
See Staurolite.
GRAND MERCY
See Gramercy. [Obs.]
GRAND-DUCAL
Of or pertaining to a grand duke. H. James.
GRANDAM
An old woman; specifically, a grandmother. Shak.
GRANDAUNT
The aunt of one's father or mother.
GRANDCHILD
A son's or daughter's child; a child in the second degree ofdescent.
GRANDDAUGHTER
The daughter of one's son or daughter.
GRANDEE
A man of elevated rank or station; a nobleman. In Spain, anobleman of the first rank, who may be covered in the king'spresence.
GRANDEESHIP
The rank or estate of a grandee; lordship. H. Swinburne.
GRANDEUR
The state or quality of being grand; vastness; greatness;splendor; magnificence; stateliness; sublimity; dignity; elevation ofthought or expression; nobility of action.Nor doth this grandeur and majestic show Of luxury . . . allure mineeye. Milton.
GRANDEVITY
Great age; long life. [Obs.] Glanvill.
GRANDEVOUS
Of great age; aged; longlived. [R.] Bailey.
GRANDFATHER
A father's or mother's father; an ancestor in the next degreeabove the father or mother in lineal ascent. Grandfather longlegs.(Zoรถl.) See Dady longlegs.
GRANDFATHERLY
Like a grandfather in age or manner; kind; benignant;indulgent.He was a grandfatherly sort of personage. Hawthorne.
GRANDIFIC
Making great. [R.] Bailey.
GRANDILOQUENCE
The use of lofty words or phrases; bombast; -- usually in a badsense.The sin of grandiloquence or tall talking. Thackeray,
GRANDILOQUENT
Speaking in a lofty style; pompous; bombastic.
GRANDILOQUOUS
Grandiloquent.
GRANDINOUS
Consisting of hail; abounding in hail. [R.] Bailey.
GRANDIOSITY
The state or quality of being grandiose,
GRANDITY
Grandness. [Obs.] Camden.
GRANDLY
In a grand manner.
GRANDMOTHER
The mother of one's father or mother.
GRANDMOTHERLY
Like a grandmother in age or manner; kind; indulgent.
GRANDNEPHEW
The grandson of one's brother or sister.
GRANDNESS
Grandeur. Wollaston.
GRANDNIECE
The granddaughter of one's brother or sister.
GRANDSIRE
Specifically, a grandfather; more generally, any ancestor.
GRANDSON
A son's or daughter's son.
GRANDUNCLE
father's or mother's uncle.
GRANE
See Groan. [Obs.]
GRANGERISM
The practice of illustrating a particular book by engravingscollected from other books.
GRANGERITE
One who collects illustrations from various books for thedecoration of one book.
GRANGERIZE
To collect (illustrations from books) for decoration of otherbooks. G. A. Sala.
GRANIFEROUS
Bearing grain, or seeds like grain. Humble.
GRANIFORM
Formed like of corn.
GRANILLA
Small grains or dust of cochineal or the coccus insect.
GRANITE
A crystalline, granular rock, consisting of quartz, feldspar,and mica, and usually of a whitish, grayish, or flesh-red color. Itdiffers from gneiss in not having the mica in planes, and therefor inbeing destitute of a schistose structure.
GRANITE STATE
New Hampshire; -- a nickname alluding to its mountains, whichare chiefly of granite.
GRANITICAL
Granitic.
GRANITIFICATION
The act or the process of forming into granite. Humble.
GRANITIFORM
Resembling granite in structure or shape.
GRANITOID
Resembling granite in granular appearance; as, granitoidgneiss; a granitoid pavement.
GRANIVOROUS
Eating grain; feeding or subsisting on seeds; as, granivorousbirds. Gay.
GRANNAM
A grandam. [Colloq.]
GRANNY
A grandmother; a grandam; familiarly, an old woman. Granny'sbend, or Granny's knot (Naut.), a kind of insecure knot or hitch; areef knot crossed the wrong way.
GRANOLITHIC
A kind of hard artificial stone, used for pavements.
GRANT
To assent; to consent. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GRANTABLE
Capable of being granted.
GRANTEE
The person to whom a grant or conveyance is made.His grace will not survive the poor grantee he despises. Burke.
GRANTER
One who grants.
GRANTOR
The person by whom a grant or conveyance is made.
GRANULAR
Consisting of, or resembling, grains; as, a granular substance.Granular limestone, crystalline limestone, or marble, having agranular structure.
GRANULARLY
In a granular form.
GRANULARY
Granular.
GRANULATE
To collect or be formed into grains; as, cane juice granulatesinto sugar.
GRANULE
A little grain a small particle; a pellet.
GRANULIFEROUS
Full of granulations.
GRANULIFORM
Having a granular structure; granular; as, granuliformlimestone.
GRANULITE
A whitish, granular rock, consisting of feldspar and quartzintimately mixed; -- sometimes called whitestone, and leptynite.
GRANULOSE
The main constituent of the starch grain or granule, indistinction from the framework of cellulose. Unlike cellulose, it iscolored blue by iodine, and is converted into dextrin and sugar byboiling acids and amylolytic ferments.
GRANULOUS
Full of grains; abounding with granular substances; granular.
GRAPE
A well-known edible berry growing in pendent clusters orbunches on the grapevine. The berries are smooth-skinned, have ajuicy pulp, and are cultivated in great quantities for table use andfor making wine and raisins.
GRAPE FRUIT
The shaddock.
GRAPELESS
Wanting grapes or the flavor of grapes.
GRAPERY
A building or inclosure used for the cultivation of grapes.
GRAPESHOT
A cluster, usually nine in number, of small iron balls, puttogether by means of cast-iron circular plates at top and bottom,with two rings, and a central connecting rod, in order to be used asa charge for a cannon. Formerly grapeshot were inclosed in canvasbags.
GRAPESTONE
A seed of the grape.
GRAPEVINE
A vine or climbing shrub, of the genus Vitis, having smallgreen flowers and lobed leaves, and bearing the fruit called grapes.
GRAPHICALLY
In a graphic manner; vividly.
GRAPHICS
The art or the science of drawing; esp. of drawing according tomathematical rules, as in perspective, projection, and the like.
GRAPHISCOPE
See Graphoscope.
GRAPHITE
Native carbon in hexagonal crystals, also foliated or granularmassive, of black color and metallic luster, and so soft as to leavea trace on paper. It is used for pencils (improperly called leadpencils), for crucibles, and as a lubricator, etc. Often calledplumbago or black lead. Graphite battery (Elec.), a voltaic batteryconsisting of zinc and carbon in sulphuric acid, or other excitingliquid.
GRAPHITIC
Pertaining to, containing, derived from, or resembling,graphite. Graphitic acid (Chem.), an organic acid, so called becauseobtained by the oxidation of graphite; -- usually called melliticacid.-- Graphitic carbon, in iron or steel, that portion of the carbonwhich is present as graphite. Raymond.
GRAPHOLITE
Any species of slate suitable to be written on.
GRAPHOLOGY
The art of judging of a person's character, disposition, andaptitude from his handwriting.
GRAPHOPHONE
A kind of photograph.
GRAPHOSCOPE
An optical instrument for magnifying engravings, photographs,etc., usually having one large lens and two smaller ones.
GRAPHOTYPE
A process for producing a design upon a surface in relief sothat it can be printed from. Prepared chalk or oxide of zinc ispressed upon a smooth plate by a hydraulic press, and the design isdrawn upon this in a peculiar ink which hardens the surface whereverit is applied. The surface is then carefully rubbed or brushed,leaving the lines in relief.
GRAPNEL
A small anchor, with four or five flukes or claws, used to holdboats or small vessels; hence, any instrument designed to grapple orhold; a grappling iron; a grab; -- written also grapline, andcrapnel.
GRAPPLE
To use a grapple; to contend in close fight; to attach one'sself as if by a grapple, as in wrestling; to close; to seize oneanother. To grapple with, to enter into contest with, resolutely andcourageously.And in my standard bear the arms of York, To grapple with the houseof Lancaster. Shak.
GRAPPLEMENT
A grappling; close fight or embrace. [Obs.] Spenser.
GRAPSOID
Pertaining to the genus Grapsus or the family Grapsidรฆ.-- n.
GRAPTOLITE
One of numerous species of slender and delicate fossils, of thegenus Graptolites and allied genera, found in the Silurian rocks.They belong to an extinct group (Graptolithina) supposed to behydroids.
GRAPTOLITIC
Of or pertaining to graptolites; containing graptolites; as, agraptolitic slate.
GRAPY
Composed of, or resembling, grapes.The grapy clusters. Addison.
GRASP
To effect a grasp; to make the motion of grasping; to clutch;to struggle; to strive.As one that grasped And tugged for life and was by strength subdued.Shak.To grasp at, to catch at; to try to seize; as, Alexander grasped atuniversal empire,
GRASPABLE
Capable of being grasped.
GRASPER
One who grasps or seizes; one who catches or holds.
GRASPLESS
Without a grasp; relaxed.From my graspless hand Drop friendship's precious pearls. Coleridge.
GRASS
An endogenous plant having simple leaves, a stem generallyjointed and tubular, the husks or glumes in pairs, and the seedsingle.
GRASS-GROWN
Overgrown with grass; as, a grass-grown road.
GRASSATION
A wandering about with evil intentions; a rioting. [Obs. & R.]Feltham.
GRASSHOPPER
Any jumping, orthopterous insect, of the families Acrididรฆ andLocustidรฆ. The species and genera are very numerous. The formerfamily includes the Western grasshopper or locust (Caloptenusspretus), noted for the great extent of its ravages in the regionbeyond the Mississippi. In the Eastern United States the red-legged(Caloptenus femurrubrum and C. atlanis) are closely related species,but their ravages are less important. They are closely related to themigratory locusts of the Old World. See Locust.
GRASSINESS
The state of abounding with grass; a grassy state.
GRASSLESS
Destitute of grass.
GRASSPLOT
A plot or space covered with grass; a lawn. "Here on thisgrassplot." Shak.
GRATE
Serving to gratify; agreeable. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
GRATED
Furnished with a grate or grating; as, grated windows.
GRATER
One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument orutensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off smallparticles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs.
GRATICULATION
The division of a design or draught into squares, in order themore easily to reproduce it in larger or smaller dimensions.
GRATICULE
A design or draught which has been divided into squares, inorder to reproduce it in other dimensions.
GRATIFIED
Pleased; indulged according to desire.
GRATIFIER
One who gratifies or pleases.
GRATIN
The brown crust formed upon a gratinated dish; also, dishitself, as crusts bread, game, or poultry.
GRATINATE
To cook, as macaroni, in a savory juice or sauce until juice isabsorbed and a crisp surface forms.
GRATING
That grates; making a harsh sound; harsh.-- Grat"ing*ly, adv.
GRATIOLIN
One of the essential principles of the hedge hyssop (Gratiolaofficinalis).
GRATIS
For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously.
GRATITUDE
The state of being grateful; warm and friendly feeling toward abenefactor; kindness awakened by a favor received; thankfulness.The debt immense of endless gratitude. Milton.
GRATULATE
To salute with declaration of joy; to congratulate. [R.] Shak.
GRATULATION
The act of gratulating or felicitating; congratulation.I shall turn my wishes into gratulations. South.
GRATULATORY
Expressing gratulation or joy; congratulatory.The usual groundwork of such gratulatory odes. Bp. Horsley.
GRAUNT
See Grant. Chaucer.
GRAUWACKE
Graywacke.
GRAVAMEN
The grievance complained of; the substantial cause of theaction; also, in general, the ground or essence of a complaint.Bouvier.
GRAVE
(Naut.) To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass,etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves orgreaves was formerly used for this purpose.
GRAVECLOTHES
The clothes or dress in which the dead are interred.
GRAVEDIGGER
See Burying beetle, under Bury, v. t.
GRAVEL
A deposit of small calculous concretions in the kidneys and theurinary or gall bladder; also, the disease of which they are asymptom. Gravel powder, a coarse gunpowder; pebble powder.
GRAVEL-STONE
A pebble, or small fragment of stone; a calculus.
GRAVELESS
Without a grave; unburied.
GRAVELLINESS
State of being gravelly.
GRAVELLY
Abounding with gravel; consisting of gravel; as, a gravellysoil.
GRAVELY
In a grave manner.
GRAVEN
Carved. Graven image, an idol; an object of worship carved fromwood, stone, etc. "Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image."Ex. xx. 4.
GRAVENESS
The quality of being grave.His sables and his weeds, Importing health and graveness. Shak.
GRAVENSTEIN
A kind of fall apple, marked with streaks of deep red andorange, and of excellent flavor and quality.
GRAVEOLENCE
A strong and offensive smell; rancidity. [R.] Bailey.
GRAVEOLENT
Having a rank smell. [R.] Boyle.
GRAVERY
The act, process, or art, of graving or carving; engraving.Either of picture or gravery and embossing. Holland.
GRAVES
The sediment of melted tallow. Same as Greaves.
GRAVESTONE
A stone laid over, or erected near, a grave, usually with aninscription, to preserve the memory of the dead; a tombstone.
GRAVEYARD
A yard or inclosure for the interment of the dead; a cemetery.
GRAVIC
Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces;gravic attraction. [R.]
GRAVID
Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant; fruitful; as, agravid uterus; gravid piety. " His gravid associate." Sir T. Herbert.
GRAVIDATED
Made pregnant; big. [Obs.] Barrow.
GRAVIDATION
Gravidity. [Obs.]
GRAVIDITY
The state of being gravidated; pregnancy. [R.]
GRAVIGRADE
Slow-paced.-- n.
GRAVIMETER
(Physics) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravityof bodies.
GRAVIMETRIC
Of or pertaining to measurement by weight; measured by weight.-- Grav"i*met"ric*al*ly, adv. Gravimetric analysis (Chem.), analysisin which the amounts of the coastituents are determined by weight; --in distinction from volumetric analysis.
GRAVING
The act of cleaning a ship's bottom. Graving dock. (Naut.) Seeunder Dock.
GRAVITATE
To obey the law of gravitation; to exert a force Or pressure,or tend to move, under the influence of gravitation; to tend in anydirection or toward any object.Why does this apple fall to the ground Because all bodies gravitatetoward each other. Sir W. Hamilton.Politicians who naturally gravitate towards the stronger party.Macaulay.
GRAVITATIONAL
Of or pertaining to the force of gravity; as, gravitationalunits.
GRAVITATIVE
Causing to gravitate; tending to a center. Coleridge.
GRAVITY
The tendency of a mass of matter toward a center of attraction;esp., the tendency of a body toward the center of the earth;terrestrial gravitation.
GRAYBEARD
An old man. Shak.
GRAYFLY
The trumpet fly. Milton.
GRAYHOUND
See Greyhound.
GRAYISH
Somewhat gray.
GRAYLAG
The common wild gray goose (Anser anser) of Europe, believed tobe the wild form of the domestic goose. See Illust. of Goose.
GRAYLING
A European fish (Thymallus vulgaris), allied to the trout, buthaving a very broad dorsal fin; -- called also umber. It inhabitscold mountain streams, and is valued as a game fish.And here and there a lusty trout, And here and there a grayling.Tennyson.
GRAYNESS
The quality of being gray.
GRAYSTONE
A grayish or greenish compact rock, composed of feldspar andaugite, and allied to basalt.
GRAYWACKE
A conglomerate or grit rock, consisting of rounded pebbles sandfirmly united together.
GRAZER
One that grazes; a creature which feeds on growing grass orherbage.The cackling goose, Close grazer, finds wherewith to ease her want.J. Philips.
GRAZIER
One who pastures cattle, and rears them for market.The inhabitants be rather . . . graziers than plowmen. Stow.
GRAZIOSO
Gracefully; smoothly; elegantly.
GRE
See Gree, a step. [Obs.]
GREASE
An inflammation of a horse's heels, suspending the ordinarygreasy secretion of the part, and producing dryness and scurfiness,followed by cracks, ulceration, and fungous excrescences. Greasebush. (Bot.) Same as Grease wood (below).-- Grease moth (Zoรถl.), a pyralid moth (Aglossa pinguinalis) whoselarva eats greasy cloth, etc.-- Grease wood (Bot.), a scraggy, stunted, and somewhat pricklyshrub (Sarcobatus vermiculatus) of the Spinach family, very abundantin alkaline valleys from the upper Missouri to California. The nameis also applied to other plants of the same family, as severalspecies of Atriplex and Obione.
GREASILY
, adv.
GREASINESS
The quality or state of being greasy, oiliness; unctuousness;grossness.
GREASY
Affected with the disease called grease; as, the heels of ahorse. See Grease, n., 2.
GREAT
The whole.; the gross; as, a contract to build a ship by thegreat.
GREAT WHITE WAY
Broadway, in New York City, in the neighborhood chieflyoccupied by theaters, as from about 30th Street about 50th Street; --so called from its brilliant illumination at night.
GREAT-BELLIED
Having a great belly, bigbellied; pregnant; teeming. Shak.
GREAT-GRANDCHILD
The child of one's grandson or granddaughter.
GREAT-GRANDDAUGHTER
A daughter of one's grandson or granddaughter.
GREAT-GRANDFATHER
The father of one's grandfather or grandmother.
GREAT-GRANDMOTHER
The mother of one's grandfather or grandmother.
GREAT-GRANDSON
A son of one's grandson or granddaughter.
GREAT-HEARTEDNESS
The quality of being greathearted; high-mindedness;magnanimity.
GREATCOAT
An overcoat.
GREATEN
To make great; to aggrandize; to cause to increase in size; toexpand. [R.]A minister's [business] is to greaten and exalt [his king]. Ken.
GREAVE
A grove. [Obs.] Spenser.
GREAVES
The sediment of melted tallow. It is made into cakes for dogs'food. In Scotland it is called cracklings. [Written also graves.]
GREBE
One of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus(formerly Podiceps), aud allied genera, found in the northern partsof America, Europe, and Asia. They have strong, sharp bills, andlobate toes.
GRECIAN
Of or pertaining to Greece; Greek. Grecian bend, among women,an affected carriage of the body, the upper part being inclinedforward. [Collog.] -- Grecian fire. See Greek fire, under Greek.
GRECISM
An idiom of the Greek language; a Hellenism. Addison.
GRECIZE
To conform to the Greek custom, especially in speech.
GRECO-ROMAN
Having characteristics that are partly Greek and partly Roman;as, Greco-Roman architecture.
GRECQUE
An ornament supposed to be of Greek origin, esp. a fret ormeander,
GREE
To agree. [Obs.] Fuller.
GREECE
See Gree a step. [Obs.]
GREED
An eager desire or longing; greediness; as, a greed of gain.
GREEDILY
, adv. In a greedy manner.
GREEDINESS
The quality of being greedy; vehement and selfish desire.Fox in stealth, wolf in greediness. Shak.
GREEDY-GUT
A glutton. [Low] Todd.
GREEK
Of or pertaining to Greece or the Greeks; Grecian. Greekcalends. See under Calends.-- Greek Church (Eccl. Hist.), the Eastern Church; that part ofChristendom which separated from the Roman or Western Church in theninth century. It comprises the great bulk of the Christianpopulation of Russia (of which this is the established church),Greece, Moldavia, and Wallachia. The Greek Church is governed bypatriarchs and is called also the Byzantine Church.-- Greek cross. See Illust. (10) Of Cross.-- Greek Empire. See Byzantine Empire.-- Greek fire, a combustible composition which burns under water,the constituents of which are supposed to be asphalt, with niter andsulphur. Ure.-- Greek rose, the flower campion.
GREEK CALENDAR
A time that will never come, as the Greeks had no calends.
GREEKESS
A female Greek. [R.]
GREEKISH
Peculiar to Greece.
GREEKLING
A little Greek, or one of small esteem or pretensions. B.Jonson.
GREEN
To make green.Great spring before Greened all the year. Thomson.
GREEN-BROOM
A plant of the genus Genista (G. tinctoria); dyer's weed; --called also greenweed.
GREEN-LEEK
An Australian parrakeet (Polytelis Barrabandi); -- called alsothe scarlet-breasted parrot.
GREEN-STALL
A stall at which greens and fresh vegetables are exposed forsale.
GREENBACK
One of the legal tender notes of the United States; -- firstissued in 1862, and having the devices on the back printed with greenink, to prevent alterations and counterfeits.
GREENBACKER
One of those who supported greenback or paper money, andopposed the resumption of specie payments. [Colloq. U. S.]
GREENCLOTH
A board or court of justice formerly held in the counting houseof the British sovereign's household, composed of the lord stewardand his officers, and having cognizance of matters of justice in thehousehold, with power to correct offenders and keep the peace withinthe verge of the palace, which extends two hundred yards beyond thegatees.
GREENERY
Green plants; verdure.A pretty little one-storied abode, so rural, so smothered ingreenery. J. Ingelow.
GREENFISH
See Bluefish, and Pollock.
GREENGAGE
A kind of plum of medium size, roundish shape, greenish flesh,and delicious flavor. It is called in France Reine Claude, after thequeen of Francis I. See Gage.
GREENGILL
An oyster which has the gills tinged with a green pigment, saidto be due to an abnormal condition of the blood.
GREENGROCER
A retailer of vegetables or fruits in their fresh or greenstate.
GREENHEAD
A state of greenness; verdancy. Chaucer.
GREENHORN
A raw, inexperienced person; one easily imposed upon. W.Irving.
GREENHOUSE
A house in which tender plants are cultivated and shelteredfrom the weather.
GREENING
A greenish apple, of several varieties, among which the RhodeIsland greening is the best known for its fine-grained acid flesh andits excellent keeping quality.
GREENISH
Somewhat green; having a tinge of green; as, a greenish yellow.-- Green"ish*ness, n.
GREENLANDER
A native of Greenland.
GREENLET
l. (Zoรถl.) One of numerous species of small American singingbirds, of the genus Vireo, as the solitary, or blue-headed (Vireosolitarius); the brotherly-love (V. Philadelphicus); the warblinggreenlet (V. gilvus); the yellow-throated greenlet (V. flavifrons)and others. See Vireo.
GREENLY
With a green color; newly; freshly, immaturely.-- a.
GREENOCKITE
Native cadmium sulphide, a mineral occurring in yellowhexagonal crystals, also as an earthy incrustation.
GREENROOM
The retiring room of actors and actresses in a theater.
GREENSAND
A variety of sandstone, usually imperfectly consolidated,consisting largely of glauconite, a silicate of iron and potash of agreen color, mixed with sand and a trace of phosphate of lime.
GREENSHANK
A European sandpiper or snipe (Totanus canescens); -- calledalso greater plover.
GREENSTONE
A name formerly applied rather loosely to certain dark-coloredigneous rocks, including diorite, diabase, etc.
GREENSWARD
Turf green with grass.
GREENTH
The state or quality of being green; verdure. [R.]The greenth of summer. G. Eliot.
GREENWEED
See Greenbroom.
GREENWOOD
A forest as it appears is spring and summer.
GREET
Great. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GREETER
One who greets or salutes another.
GREETING
Expression of kindness or joy; salutation at meeting; acompliment from one absent.Write to him . . . gentle adieus and greetings. Shak.
GREEVE
See Grieve, an overseer.
GREEZE
A step. See Gree, a step. [Obs.]The top of the ladder, or first greeze, is this. Latimer.
GREFFIER
A registrar or recorder; a notary. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
GREGAL
Pertaining to, or like, a flock.For this gregal conformity there is an excuse. W. S. Mayo.
GREGARIAN
Gregarious; belonging to the herd or common sort; common.[Obs.] "The gregarian soldiers." Howell.
GREGARINE
Of or pertaining to the Gregarinรฆ.-- n.
GREGARINIDA
Gregarinรฆ.
GREGARIOUS
Habitually living or moving in flocks or herds; tending toflock or herd together; not habitually solitary or living alone.Burke.No birds of prey are gregarious. Ray.-- Gre*ga"ri*ous*ly, adv.-- Gre-ga'ri-ous-ness, n.
GREGORIAN
Pertaining to, or originated by, some person named Gregory,especially one of the popes of that name. Gregorian calendar, thecalendar as reformed by Pope Gregory XIII. in 1582, including themethod of adjusting the leap years so as to harmonize the civil yearwith the solar, and also the regulation of the time of Easter and themovable feasts by means of epochs. See Gregorian year (below).-- Gregorian chant (Mus.), plain song, or canto fermo, a kind ofunisonous music, according to the eight celebrated church modes, asarranged and prescribed by Pope Gregory I. (called "the Great") inthe 6th century.-- Gregorian modes, the musical scales ordained by Pope Gregory theGreat, and named after the ancient Greek scales, as Dorian, Lydian,etc.-- Gregorian telescope (Opt.), a form of reflecting telescope, namedfrom Prof. James Gregory, of Edinburgh, who perfected it in 1663. Asmall concave mirror in the axis of this telescope, having its focuscoincident with that of the large reflector, transmits the lightreceived from the latter back through a hole in its center to theeyepiece placed behind it.-- Gregorian year, the year as now reckoned according to theGregorian calendar. Thus, every year, of the current reckoning, whichis divisible by 4, except those divisible by 100 aud not by 400, has366 days; all other years have 365 days. See Bissextile, and Noteunder Style, n., 7.
GREILLADE
Iron ore in coarse powder, prepared for reduction by theCatalan process.
GREISEN
A crystalline rock consisting of quarts and mica, common in thetin regions of Cornwall and Saxony.
GREIT
See Greet, to weep.
GREITH
To make ready; -- often used reflexively. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GREMIAL
Of or pertaining to the lap or bosom. [R.]
GRENADE
A hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of otherexplosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand amongenemies. Hand grenade. (a) A small grenade of iron or glass, usuallyabout two and a half inches in diameter, to be thrown from the handinto the head of a sap, trenches, covered way, or upon besiegersmounting a breach. (b) A portable fire extinguisher consisting of aglass bottle containing water and gas. It is thrown into the flames.Called also fire grenade. Rampart grenades, grenades of varioussizes, which, when used, are rolled over the pararapet in a trough.
GRENADIER
Originaly, a soldier who carried and threw grenades; afterward,one of a company attached to each regiment or battalion, taking poston the right of the line, and wearing a peculiar uniform. In moderntimes, a member of a special regiment or corps; as, a grenadier ofthe guard of Napoleon I. one of the regiment of Grenadier Guards ofthe British army, etc.
GRENADILLO
A handsome tropical American wood, much used for making flutesand other wind instruments; -- called also Grenada cocos, or cocus,and red ebony.
GRENADO
Same as Grenade.
GRENE
Green. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GRES
Grass. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GRETTO
imp. of Greet, to salute.
GREVE
A grove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GREW
imp. of Grow.
GREY
See Gray (the correct orthography).
GREYHOUND
A slender, graceful breed of dogs, remarkable for keen sightand swiftness. It is one of the oldest varieties known, and isfigured on the Egyptian monuments. [Written also grayhound.]
GREYLAG
See Graylag.
GRIBBLE
A small marine isopod crustacean (Limnoria lignorum or L.terebrans), which burrows into and rapidly destroys submerged timber,such as the piles of wharves, both in Europe and America.
GRICE
A little pig. [Written also grise.] [Scot.]
GRID
A grating of thin parallel bars, similar to a gridiron.
GRIDDLECAKE
A cake baked or fried on a griddle, esp. a thin batter cake, asof buckwheat or common flour.
GRIDE
To cut with a grating sound; to cut; to penetrate or pierceharshly; as, the griding sword. Milton.That through his thigh the mortal steel did gride. Spenser.
GRIDELIN
A color mixed of white, and red, or a gray violet. [Writtenalso gredaline, grizelin.] Dryden.
GRIDIRON
An openwork frame on which vessels are placed for examination,cleaning, and repairs. 3. (Sport)
GRIEFFUL
Full of grief or sorrow. Sackvingle.
GRIEFLESS
Without grief. Huloet.
GRIEGO
See Greggoe.
GRIEVABLE
Lamentable. [Obs.]
GRIEVANCER
One who occasions a grievance; one who gives ground forcomplaint. [Obs.]Petition . . . against the bishops as grand grievancers. Fuller.
GRIEVE
To feel grief; to be in pain of mind on account of an evil; tosorrow; to mourn; -- often followed by at, for, or over.Do not you grieve at this. Shak.
GRIEVER
One who, or that which, grieves.
GRIEVING
Sad; sorrowful; causing grief.-- n.
GRIFF
An arrangement of parallel bars for lifting the hooked wireswhich raise the warp threads in a loom for weaving figured goods.Knight.
GRIFFE
The offspring of a mulatto woman and a negro; also, a mulatto.[Local, U. S.]
GRIFFIN
An Anglo-Indian name for a person just arrived from Europe. H.Kingsley.
GRIL
Harah; hard; severe; stern; rough. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
GRILLADE
The act of grilling; also, that which is grilled.
GRILLAGE
A framework of sleepers and crossbeams forming a foundation inmarshy or treacherous soil.
GRILLE
A lattice or grating.The grille which formed part of the gate. L. Oliphant.
GRILLROOM
A room specially fitted for broiling food, esp. one in arestaurant, hotel, or clubhouse, arranged for prompt service.
GRILLY
To broil; to grill; hence, To harass. [Obs.] Hudibras.
GRILSE
A young salmon after its first return from the sea.
GRIM
Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly;cruel; frightful; horrible.Whose grim aspect sets every joint a-shaking. Shak.The ridges of grim war. Milton.
GRIMACE
A distortion of the countenance, whether habitual, fromaffectation, or momentary aad occasional, to express some feeling, ascontempt, disapprobation, complacency, etc.; a smirk; a made-up face.Moving his face into such a hideons grimace, that every feature of itappeared under a different distortion. Addison.
GRIMACED
Distorted; crabbed.
GRIMALKIN
An old cat, esp. a she-cat. J. Philips.
GRIME
Foul matter; dirt, rubbed in; sullying blackness, deeplyingrained.
GRIMILY
In a grimy manner.
GRIMINESS
The state of being grimy.
GRIMLY
Grim; hideous; stern. [R.]In glided Margaret's grimly ghost, And stood at William's feet. D.Mallet.
GRIMME
A West African antelope (Cephalophus rufilotus) of a deep baycolor, with a broad dorsal stripe of black; -- called alsoconquetoon.
GRIMNESS
Fierceness of look; sternness; crabbedness; forbiddingness.
GRIMSIR
A stern man. [Obs.] Burton.
GRIMY
Full of grime; begrimed; dirty; foul.
GRIN
A snare; a gin. [Obs.]Like a bird that hasteth to his grin. Remedy of Love.
GRINDED
Ground. Sir W. Scott.
GRINDELIA
The dried stems and leaves of tarweed (Grindelia), used as aremedy in asthma and bronchitis.
GRINDER
The restless flycatcher (Seisura inquieta) of Australia; --called also restless thrush and volatile thrush. It makes a noiselike a scissors grinder, to which the name alludes. Grinder's asthma,phthisis, or rot (Med.), a lung disease produced by the mechanicalirritation of the particles of steel and stone given off in theoperation of grinding.
GRINDERY
Leather workers' materials. [Eng.] Grindery warehouse, a shopwhere leather workers' materials and tools are kept on sale. [Eng.]
GRINDING
from Grind. Grinding frame, an English name for a cottonspinning machine.-- Grinding mill. (a) A mill for grinding grain. (b) A lapidary'slathe.
GRINDINGLY
In a grinding manner. [Colloq.]
GRINDLE
The bowfin; -- called also Johnny Grindle. [Local, U. S.]
GRINDLE STONE
A grindstone. [Obs.]
GRINDLET
A small drain.
GRINDSTONE
A flat, circular stone, revolving on an axle, for grinding orsharpening tools, or shaping or smoothing objects. To hold, pat, orbring one's nose to the grindstone, to oppress one; to keep one in acondition of servitude.They might be ashamed, for lack of courage, to suffer theLacedรฆmonians to hold their noses to the grindstone. Sir T. North.
GRINGO
Among Spanish Americans, a foreigner, esp. an Englishman orAmerican; -- often used as a term of reproach.
GRINNER
One who grins. Addison.
GRINNINGLY
In a grinning manner.
GRINT
3d pers. sing. pres. of Grind, Etym: contr. from grindeth.[Obs.] Chaucer.
GRINTE
imp. of Grin, v. i., 1.[He] grinte with his teeth, so was he wroth. Chaucer.
GRINTING
Grinding. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GRIP
The griffin. [Obs.]
GRIP CAR
A car with a grip to clutch a traction cable.
GRIPE
A vulture; the griffin. [Obs.]Like a white hind under the gripe's sharp claws. Shak.Gripe's egg, an alchemist's vessel. [Obs.] E. Jonson.
GRIPEFUL
Disposed to gripe; extortionate.
GRIPER
One who gripes; an oppressor; an extortioner. Burton.
GRIPINGLY
In a griping or oppressive manner. Bacon.
GRIPMAN
The man who manipulates a grip.
GRIPPE
The influenza or epidemic catarrh. Dunglison.
GRIPPER
In printing presses, the fingers or nippers.
GRIPPLE
A grasp; a gripe. [Obs.] Spenser.
GRIPPLENESS
The quality of being gripple. [Obs.]
GRIPSACK
A traveler's handbag. [Colloq.]
GRIS
Gray. [R.] Chaucer.
GRISAILLE
Decorative painting in gray monochrome; -- used in Englishespecially for painted glass.
GRISAMBER
Ambergris. [Obs.] Milton.
GRISE
See Grice, a pig. [Prov. Eng.]
GRISEOUS
Of a light color, or white, mottled with black or brown;grizzled or grizzly. Maunder.
GRISETTE
A French girl or young married woman of the lower class; morefrequently, a young working woman who is fond of gallantry. Sterne.
GRISKIN
The spine of a hog. [Obs.]
GRISLED
See Grizzled.
GRISLINESS
The quality or state of being grisly; horrid. Sir P. Sidney.
GRISLY
Frightful; horrible; dreadful; harsh; as, grisly locks; agrisly specter. "Grisly to behold." Chaucer.A man of grisly and stern gravity. Robynson (More's Utopia).Grisly bear. (Zoรถl.) See under Grizzly.
GRISONS
The largest and most eastern of the Swiss cantons.
GRISTLE
Cartilage. See Cartilage. Bacon.
GRISTLY
Consisting of, or containing, gristle; like gristle;cartilaginous.
GRISTMILL
A mill for grinding grain; especially, a mill for grindinggrists, or portions of grain brought by different customers; a custommill.
GRIT
Grain, esp. oats or wheat, hulled and coarsely ground; in highmilling, fragments of cracked wheat smaller than groats.
GRITH
Peace; security; agreement. [Obs.] Gower.
GRITTINESS
The quality of being gritty.
GRIVET
A monkey of the upper Nile and Abyssinia (Cercopithecusgriseoviridis), having the upper parts dull green, the lower partswhite, the hands, ears, and face black. It was known to the ancientEgyptians. Called also tota.
GRIZE
Same as 2d Grise. [Obs.]
GRIZELIN
See Gridelin.
GRIZZLE
Gray; a gray color; a mixture of white and black. Shak.
GRIZZLED
Gray; grayish; sprinkled or mixed with gray; of a mixed whiteand black.Grizzled hair flowing in elf locks. Sir W. Scott.
GRIZZLY
Somewhat gray; grizzled.Old squirrels that turn grizzly. Bacon.Grizzly bear (Zoรถl.), a large and ferocious bear (Ursus horribilis)of Western North America and the Rocky Mountains. It is remarkablefor the great length of its claws.
GROAN
To affect by groans.
GROANFUL
Agonizing; sad. [Obs.] Spenser.
GROATS
Dried grain, as oats or wheat, hulled and broken or crushed; inhigh milling, cracked fragments of wheat larger than grits. Embdengroats, crushed oats.
GROBIAN
A rude or clownish person; boor; lout.
GROCER
A trader who deals in tea, sugar, spices, coffee, fruits, andvarious other commodities. Grocer's itch (Med.), a disease of theakin, caused by handling sugar and treacle.
GROG
A mixture of spirit and water not sweetened; hence, anyintoxicating liquor. Grog blossom, a redness on the nose or face ofpersons who drink ardent spirits to excess. [Collog.]
GROGGERY
A grogshop. [Slang, U. S.]
GROGGINESS
Tenderness or stiffness in the foot of a horse, which causeshim to move in a hobbling manner.
GROGGY
Moving in a hobbling manner, owing to ten der feet; -- said ofa horse. Youatt.
GROGSHOP
A shop or room where strong liquors are sold and drunk; adramshop.
GROIN
The snout of a swine. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GROINED
Built with groins; as, a groined ceiling; a groined vault.
GROLIER
The name by which Jean Grolier de Servier (1479-1565), a Frenchbibliophile, is commonly known; -- used in naming a certain style ofbinding, a design, etc.
GROMET
Same as Grommet.
GROMILL
See Gromwell.
GROMMET
A ring of rope used as a wad to hold a cannon ball in place.
GROMWELL
A plant of the genus Lithospermum (L. arvense), anciently used,because of its stony pericarp, in the cure of gravel. The Germangromwell is the Stellera. [Written also gromill.]
GROND
obs. imp. of Grind. Chaucer.
GRONTE
obs. imp. of Groan. Chaucer.
GROOM
To tend or care for, or to curry or clean, as a, horse.
GROOMER
One who, or that which, grooms horses; especially, a brushrotated by a flexible or jointed revolving shaft, for cleaninghorses.
GROOMSMAN
A male attendant of a bridegroom at his wedding; -- thecorrelative of bridesmaid.
GROOPER
See Grouper.
GROOVE
A shaft or excavation. [Prov. Eng.]
GROOVING
The act of forming a groove or grooves; a groove, or collectionof grooves.
GROPER
One who gropes; one who feels his way in the dark, or searchesby feeling.
GROPING-LY
In a groping manner.
GROS
A heavy silk with a dull finish; as, gros de Naples; gros deTours.
GROSBEAK
One of various species of finches having a large, stout beak.The common European grosbeak or hawfinch is Coccothraustes vulgaris.
GROSCHEN
A small silver coin and money of account of Germany, worthabout two cents. It is not included in the new monetary system of theempire.
GROSGRAIN
Of a coarse texture; -- applied to silk with a heavy threadrunning crosswise.
GROSS
The number of twelve dozen; twelve times twelve; as, a gross ofbottles; ten gross of pens. Advowson in gross (Law), an advowsonbelonging to a person, and not to a manor.-- A great gross, twelve gross; one hundred and forty-four dozen.-- By the gross, by the quantity; at wholesale.-- Common in gross. (Law) See under Common, n.-- In the gross, In gross, in the bulk, or the undivided whole; allparts taken together.
GROSS-HEADED
Thick-skulled; stupid.
GROSSBEAK
See Grosbeak.
GROSSIFICATION
The swelling of the ovary of plants after fertilization.Henslow.
GROSSLY
In a gross manner; greatly; coarsely; without delicacy;shamefully; disgracefully.
GROSSNESS
The state or quality of being gross; thickness; corpulence;coarseness; shamefulness.Abhor the swinish grossness that delights to wound the' ear ofdelicacy. Dr. T. Dwight.
GROSSULAR
Pertaining too, or resembling, a gooseberry; as, grossulargarnet.
GROSSULARIA
Same as Grossular.
GROSSULIN
A vegetable jelly, resembling pectin, found in gooseberries(Ribes Grossularia) and other fruits.
GROT
A grotto. [Poetic] Milton.
GROTESQUE
Like the figures found in ancient grottoes; grottolike; wildlyor strangely formed; whimsical; extravagant; of irregular forms andproportions; fantastic; ludicrous; antic. "Grotesque design." Dryden."Grotesque incidents." Macaulay.
GROTESQUELY
In a grotesque manner.
GROTESQUENESS
Quality of being grotesque.
GROTESQUERY
Grotesque action, speech, or manners; grotesque doings. "Thesustained grotesquery of Feather-top."  K. L. Bates.
GROTTO
A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, anartificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment.
GROTTO-WORK
Artificial and ornamental rockwork in imitation of a grotto.Cowper.
GROUND
A floor or pavement supposed to rest upon the earth.
GROUNDAGE
A local tax paid by a ship for the ground or space it occupieswhile in port. Bouvier.
GROUNDEDLY
In a grounded or firmly established manner. Glanvill.
GROUNDEN
p. p. of Grind. Chaucer.
GROUNDING
The act, method, or process of laying a groundwork orfoundation; hence, elementary instruction; the act or process ofapplying a ground, as of color, to wall paper, cotton cloth, etc.; abasis.
GROUNDLESS
Without ground or foundation; wanting cause or reason forsupport; not authorized; false; as, groundless fear; a groundlessreport or assertion.-- Ground"less*ly, adv.-- Ground"less*ness, n.
GROUNDLING
A fish that keeps at the bottom of the water, as the loach.
GROUNDLY
Solidly; deeply; thoroughly. [Obs.]Those whom princes do once groundly hate, Let them provide to die assure us fate. Marston.
GROUNDSEL
An annual composite plant (Senecio vulgaris) one of the mostcommon, and widely distributed weeds on the globe.
GROUNDSILL
Defn:
GROUNDWORK
That which forms the foundation or support of anything; thebasis; the essential or fundamental part; first principle. Dryden.
GROUP
A variously limited assemblage of animals or planta, havingsome resemblance, or common characteristics in form or structure. Theterm has different uses, and may be made to include certain speciesof a genus, or a whole genus, or certain genera, or even severalorders.
GROUPING
The disposal or relative arrangement of figures or objects, asin, drawing, painting, and sculpture, or in ornamental design.
GROUSE
) Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of thefamily Tetraonidรฆ, and subfamily Tetraoninรฆ, inhabiting Europe, Asia,and North America. They have plump bodies, strong, well-featheredlegs, and usually mottled plumage. The group includes the ptarmigans(Lagopus), having feathered feet.
GROUSER
(Dredging, Pile Driving, etc.) A pointed timber attached to aboat and sliding vertically, to thrust into the ground as a means ofanchorage.
GROUT
Lees; dregs; grounds. [Eng.] "Grouts of tea." Dickens.
GROUTHEAD
See Growthead.
GROUTING
The process of filling in or finishing with grout; also, thegrout thus filled in. Gwilt.
GROUTNOL
Same as Growthead. Beau. & Fl.
GROUTY
Cross; sulky; sullen. [Colloq.]
GROVE
The original sense seems to have been a lane cut through trees.See Grave, v., and cf. Groove.] A smaller group of trees than aforest, and without underwood, planted, or growing naturally as ifarranged by art; a wood of small extent.
GROVELER
One who grovels; an abject wretch. [Written also groveller.]
GROVELING
Lying prone; low; debased. [Written also grovelling.] "Agroveling creature." Cowper.
GROVY
Pertaining to, or resembling, a grove; situated in, orfrequenting, groves. Dampier.
GROW
To cause to grow; to cultivate; to produce; as, to grow a crop;to grow wheat, hops, or tobacco. Macaulay.
GROWABLE
Capable of growth.
GROWAN
A decomposed granite, forming a mass of gravel, as in tin lodesin Cornwall.
GROWER
One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, thatwhich grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower.
GROWL
To utter a deep guttural sound, sa an angry dog; to give forthan angry, grumbling sound. Gay.
GROWLER
The large-mouthed black bass. [Local]
GROWLINGLY
In a growling manner.
GROWN
p. p. of Grow.
GROWSE
To shiver; to have chills. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray.
GROWTHEAD
A lazy person; a blockhead. [Obs.] Tusser.
GROWTHFUL
Having capacity of growth. [R.] J. Hamilton.
GROYNE
See Groin.
GROZING IRON
A tool for smoothing the solder joints of lead pipe. Knight.
GRUB
The larva of an insect, especially of a beetle; -- called alsogrubworm. See Illust. of Goldsmith beetle, under Goldsmith.Yet your butterfly was a grub. Shak.
GRUBBER
One who, or that which, grubs; especially, a machine or tool ofthe nature of a grub ax, .grub hook, etc.
GRUBBLE
To feel or grope in the dark. [Obs.] Dryden.
GRUBBY
Dirty; unclean. [Colloq.]The grubby game of marbles. Lond. Sat. Rev.
GRUBWORM
See Grub, n., 1.And gnats and grubworms crowded on his view. C. Smart.
GRUCCHE
To murmur; to grumble. [Obs.]What aileth you, thus for grucche and groan. Chaucer.
GRUDGEFUL
Full of grudge; envious. "Grudgeful discontent." Spenser.
GRUDGER
One who grudges.
GRUDGINGLY
In a grudging manner.
GRUDGINGNESS
The state or quality of grudging, or of being full of grudge orunwillingness.
GRUEL
A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal,or fiour in water or milk; thin porridge.
GRUELLY
Like gruel; of the consistence of gruel.
GRUESOME
Same as Grewsome. [Scot.]
GRUF
Forwards; with one's face to the ground. [Obs.]They fellen gruf, and cryed piteously. Chaucer.
GRUFF
Of a rough or stern manner, voice, or countenance; sour; surly;severe; harsh. Addison.Gruff, disagreeable, sarcastic remarks. Thackeray.-- Gruff"ly, adv.-- Gruff"ness, n.
GRUGRU PALM
A West Indian name for several kinds of palm. See Macaw tree,under Macaw. [Written also grigri palm.]
GRUGRU WORM
The larva or grub of a large South American beetle (Calandrapalmarum), which lives in the pith of palm trees and sugar cane. Itis eaten by the natives, and esteemed a delicacy.
GRUMBLE
To express or utter with grumbling.
GRUMBLER
One who grumbles.
GRUMBLINGLY
In a grumbling manner.
GRUME
A thick, viscid fluid; a clot, as of blood. Quincy.
GRUMLY
In a grum manner.
GRUMOSE
Clustered in grains at intervals; grumous.
GRUMOUS
See Grumose.
GRUMOUSNESS
The state of being grumous.
GRUMPILY
In a surly manner; sullenly. [Colloq.]
GRUMPY
Surly; dissatisfied; grouty. [Collog.] Ferby.
GRUNDEL
A groundling (fish). [Prov. Eng.]
GRUNDSEL
Grounsel. [Obs.]
GRUNDYISM
Narrow and unintelligent conventionalism. -- Grun"dy*ist, n.
GRUNT
To make a deep, short noise, as a hog; to utter a short groanor a deep guttural sound.Who would fardels bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life. Shak.Grunting ox (Zoรถl.), the yak.
GRUNTER
One of several American marine fishes. See Sea robin, andGrunt, n., 2.
GRUNTINGLY
In a grunting manner.
GRUNTLE
To grunt; to grunt repeatedly. [Obs.]
GRUNTLING
A young hog.
GRUTCH
See Grudge. [Obs.] Hudibras.
GRUYERE CHEESE
'' (Gruyรจre, Switzerland. It is a firm cheese containingnumerous cells, and is known in the United States as Schweitzerkรคse.
GRYDE
To gride. See Gride. Spenser.
GRYFON
See Griffin. Spenser.
GRYLLUS
A genus of insects including the common crickets.
GRYPE
To gripe. [Obs.] See Gripe. Spenser.
GRYPHAEA
A genus of cretaceous fossil shells allied to the oyster.
GRYPHITE
A shell of the genus Gryphea.
GRYPHON
The griffin vulture.
GRYSBOK
A small South African antelope (Neotragus melanotis). It isspeckled with gray and chestnut, above; the under parts are reddishfawn.
GUACHARO
A nocturnal bird of South America and Trinidad (SteatornisCaripensis, or S. steatornis); -- called also oilbird.
GUAIAC
Pertaining to, or resembling, guaiacum.-- n. Guaiacum.
GUAIACOL
A colorless liquid, C7H8O2, with a peculiar odor. It is themethyl ether of pyrocatechin, and is obtained by distilling guaiacumfrom wood-tar creosote, and in other ways. It has been used intreating pulmonary tuberculosis.
GUAIACUM
A genus of small, crooked trees, growing in tropical America.
GUAN
Any one of many species of large gallinaceous birds of Certaland South America, belonging to Penelope, Pipile, Ortalis, and alliedgenera. Several of the species are often domesticated.
GUANA
See Iguana.
GUANACO
A South American mammal (Auchenia huanaco), allied to thellama, but of larger size and more graceful form, inhabiting thesouthern Andes and Patagonia. It is supposed by some to be the llamain a wild state. [Written also huanaco.]
GUANIDINE
A strongly alkaline base, CN3H5, formed by the oxidation ofguanin, and also obtained combined with methyl in the decompositionof creatin. Boiled with dilute sulphuric acid, it yields urea andammonia.
GUANIFEROUS
Yielding guano. Ure.
GUANIN
A crystalline substance (C5H5N5O) contained in guano. It isalso a constituent of the liver, pancreas, and other glands inmammals.
GUANO
A substance found in great abundance on some coasts or islandsfrequented by sea fowls, and composed chiefly of their excrement. Itis rich in phosphates and ammonia, and is used as a powerfulfertilizer.
GUARANA
A preparation from the seeds of Paullinia sorbilis, a woodyclimber of Brazil, used in making an astringent drink, and also inthe cure of headache.
GUARANINE
An alkaloid extracted from guarana. Same as Caffeine.
GUARANTEE
The person to whom a guaranty is made; -- the correlative ofguarantor.
GUARANTY
In law and common usage: An undertaking to answer for thepayment of some debt, or the performance of some contract or duty, ofanother, in case of the failure of such other to pay or perform; aguarantee; a warranty; a security.
GUARD
To watch by way of caution or defense; to be caution; to be ina state or position of defense or safety; as, careful persons guardagainst mistakes.
GUARDABLE
Capable of being guarded or protected.
GUARDAGE
Wardship [Obs.] Shak.
GUARDANT
Same as Gardant.
GUARDED
Cautious; wary; circumspect; as, he was guarded in hisexpressions; framed or uttered with caution; as, his expressions wereguarded.-- Guard"edly, adv.-- Guard"ed*ness, n.
GUARDENAGE
Guardianship. [Obs. & R.] " His tuition and guardenage."Holland.
GUARDER
One who guards.
GUARDFISH
The garfish.
GUARDFUL
Cautions; wary; watchful. [Obs. or Poetic.] -- Guard"ful*ly,adv.
GUARDHOUSE
A building which is occupied by the guard, and in whichsoldiers are confined for misconduct; hence, a lock-up.
GUARDIAN
One who has, or is entitled to, the custody of the person orproperty of an infant, a minor without living parents, or a personincapable of managing his own affairs.Of the several species of guardians, the first are guardians bynature.-- viz., the father and (in some cases) the mother of the child.Blockstone.Guardian ad litem ( (Law), a guardian appointed by a court of justiceto conduct a particular suit.-- Guardians of the poor, the members of a board appointed orelected to care for the relief of the poor within a township, ordistrict.
GUARDIANAGE
Guardianship. [Obs.]
GUARDIANCE
Guardianship. [Obs.]
GUARDIANESS
A female guardian.I have placed a trusty, watchful guardianess. Beau. & Fl.
GUARDIANLESS
Without a guardian. Marston.
GUARDIANSHIP
The office, duty, or care, of a guardian; protection; care;watch.
GUARDLESS
Without a guard or defense; unguarded. Chapman.
GUARDROOM
The room occupied by the guard during its term of duty; also, aroom where prisoners are confined.
GUARDS
A body of picked troops; as, "The Household Guards."
GUARDSHIP
Care; protection. [Obs.] Swift.
GUARISH
To heal. [Obs.] Spenser.
GUATEMALA GRASS
See Teosinte.
GUAVA
A tropical tree, or its fruit, of the genus Psidium. Twovarieties are well known, the P. pyriferum, or white guava, and P.pomiferum, or red guava. The fruit or berry is shaped like apomegranate, but is much smaller. It is somewhat astringent, butmakes a delicious jelly.
GUBERNANCE
Government. [Obs.]
GUBERNATE
To govern. [Obs.] Cockeram.
GUBERNATION
The act of governing; government [Obs.] I. Watts.
GUBERNATIVE
Governing. [Obs.]
GUBERNATORIAL
Pertaining to a governor, or to government.
GUDGEON
A small European freshwater fish (Gobio fluviatilis), allied tothe carp. It is easily caught and often used for food and for bait.In America the killifishes or minnows are often called gudgeons.
GUE
A sharper; a rogue. [Obs.] J. Webstar.
GUELDERROSE
A cultivated variety of a species of Viburnum (V. Opulus),bearing large bunches of white flowers; -- called also snowball tree.
GUENON
One of several long-tailed Oriental monkeys, of the genusCercocebus, as the green monkey and grivet.
GUEPARDE
The cheetah.
GUERDON
A reward; requital; recompense; -- used in both a good and abad sense. Macaulay.So young as to regard men's frown or smile As loss or guerdon of aglorious lot. Byron.He shall, by thy revenging hand, at once receive the just guerdon ofall his former villainies. Knolles.
GUERDONABLE
Worthy of reward. Sir G. Buck.
GUERDONLESS
Without reward or guerdon.
GUEREZA
A beautiful Abyssinian monkey (Colobus guereza), having thebody black, with a fringe of long, silky, white hair along the sides,and a tuft of the same at the end of the tail. The frontal band,cheeks, and chin are white.
GUERILLA
See Guerrilla.
GUERITE
A projecting turret for a sentry, as at the salient angles ofworks, or the acute angles of bastions.
GUERNSEY LILY
A South African plant (Nerine Sarniensis) with handsomelilylike flowers, naturalized on the island of Guernsey.
GUERRILLA
Pertaining to, or engaged in, warfare carried on irregularlyand by independent bands; as, a guerrilla party; guerrilla warfare.
GUESS
To make a guess or random judgment; to conjecture; -- with at,about, etcThis is the place, as well as I may guess. Milton.
GUESS ROPE
A guess warp.
GUESS WARP
A rope or hawser by which a vessel is towed or warped along; --so called because it is necessary to guess at the length to becarried in the boat making the attachment to a distant object.
GUESSABLE
Capable of being guessed.
GUESSER
One who guesses; one who forms or gives an opinion withoutmeans of knowing.
GUESSINGLY
By way of conjecture. Shak.
GUESSIVE
Conjectural. [Obs.] Feltham.
GUESSWORK
Work performed, or results obtained, by guess; conjecture.
GUEST
To receive or entertain hospitably. [Obs.] Sylvester.
GUEST ROPE
The line by which a boat makes fast to the swinging boom. Ham.Nav. Encyc.
GUESTWISE
In the manner of a guest.
GUEVI
One of several very small species and varieties of Africanantelopes, of the genus Cephalophus, as the Cape guevi or kleeneboc(C. pyg. mรฆa); -- called also pygmy antelope.
GUFFAW
A loud burst of laughter, a horse laugh. "A hearty low guffaw."Carlyle.
GUFFER
The eelpout; guffer eel.
GUGGLE
See Gurgle.
GUHR
A loose, earthy deposit from water, found in the cavities orclefts of rocks, mostly white, but sometimes red or yellow, from amixture of clay or ocher. P. Cleaveland.
GUIAC
Same as Guaiac.
GUIACOL
A colorless liquid, C6H4,OCH3.OH, resembling the phenols, foundas a constituent of woodtar creosote, aud produced by the drydistillation of guaiac resin.
GUIACUM
Same as Guaiacum.
GUIB
A West African antelope (Tragelaphus scriptus), curiouslymarked with white stripes and spots on a reddish fawn ground, andhence called harnessed antelope; -- called also guiba.
GUICOWAR
[Mahratta gaekwar, prop., a cowherd.] The title of thesovereign of Guzerat, in Western India; -- generally called theGuicowar of Baroda, which is the capital of the country.
GUIDABLE
Capable of being guided; willing to be guided or counseled.Sprat.
GUIDANCE
The act or result of guiding; the superintendence or assistanceof a guide; direction; government; a leading.His studies were without guidance and without plan. Macaulay.
GUIDE
A grooved director for a probe or knife.(c) (Printing) A strip or device to direct the compositor's eye tothe line of copy he is setting.
GUIDE ROPE
A rope hung from a balloon or dirigible so as trail along theground for about half its length, used to preserve altitudeautomatically, by variation of the length dragging on the ground,without loss of ballast or gas.
GUIDEBOARD
A board, as upon a guidepost having upon it directions orinformation as to the road. Lowell.
GUIDEBOOK
A book of directions and information for travelers, tourists,etc.
GUIDELESS
Without a guide. Dryden.
GUIDEPOST
A post at the fork of a road, with a guideboard on it, todirect travelers.
GUIDER
A guide; a director. Shak.
GUIDERESS
A female guide. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GUIDGUID
A South American ant bird of the genus Hylactes; -- called alsobarking bird.
GUIGE
See Gige.
GUILDABLE
Liable to a tax. [Obs.]
GUILDER
A Dutch silver coin worth about forty cents; -- called alsoflorin and gulden.
GUILDHALL
The hall where a guild or corporation usually assembles; atownhall.
GUILE
Craft; deceitful cunning; artifice; duplicity; wile; deceit;treachery.Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile. John i. 47.To wage by force or guile eternal war. Milton.
GUILEFUL
Full of guile; characterized by cunning, deceit, or treachery;guilty.-- Guile"ful*ly, adv.-- Guile"ful*ness, n.
GUILELESS
Free from guile; artless.-- Guile"less*ly, adv. Guile"less*ness, n.
GUILLEMET
A quotation mark. [R.]
GUILLEMOT
One of several northern sea birds, allied to the auks. Theyhave short legs, placed far back, and are expert divers and swimmers.
GUILLEVAT
A vat for fermenting liquors.
GUILLOCHE
An ornament in the form of two or more bands or strings twistedover each other in a continued series, leaving circular openingswhich are filled with round ornaments.
GUILLOCHED
Waved or engine-turned. Mollett.
GUILLOTINE
To behead with the guillotine.
GUILOR
A deceiver; one who deludes, or uses guile. [Obs.] Spenser.
GUILT-SICK
Made sick by consciousness of guilt. "A guilt-sick conscience."Beau. c& El.
GUILTILY
In a guilty manner.
GUILTINESS
The quality or state of being guilty.
GUILTYLIKE
Guiltily. [Obs.] Shak.
GUIMPE
A kind of short chemisette, worn with a low-necked dress.
GUINEA-PIG DIRECTOR
A director (usually one holding a number of directorships) whoserves merely or mainly for the fee (in England, often a guinea) paidfor attendance. [Colloq.]
GUIPURE
A term used for lace of different kinds; most properly for alace of large pattern and heavy material which has no ground or mesh,but has the pattern held together by connecting threads called barsor brides.
GUIRLAND
See Garland.
GUISER
A person in disguise; a masker; a mummer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
GUITAR
A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or theviolin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk coveredwith silver wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with thefingers.
GUITGUIT
One of several species of small tropical American birds of thefamily Coerebidรฆ, allied to the creepers; -- called also quit. SeeQuit.
GULA
A capping molding. Same as Cymatium.
GULAR
Pertaining to the gula or throat; as, gular plates. See Illust.of Bird, and Bowfin.
GULAUND
An arctic sea bird.
GULCH
To swallow greedily; to gulp down. [Obs.]
GULD
A flower. See Gold. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GULDEN
See Guilder.
GULE
To give the color of gules to.
GULES
The tincture red, indicated in seals and engraved figures ofescutcheons by parallel vertical lines. Hence, used poetically for ared color or that which is red.His sev'n-fold targe a field of gules did stain In which two swordshe bore; his word, "Divide and reign." P. Fletcher.Follow thy drum; With man's blood paint the ground; gules, gules.Shak.Let's march to rest and set in gules, like suns. Beau. & Fl.
GULF
A portion of an ocean or sea extending into the land; apartially land-locked sea; as, the Gulf of Mexico.
GULFY
Full of whirlpools or gulfs. Chapman.
GULGUL
A cement made in India from sea shells, pulverized and mixedwith oil, and spread over a ship's bottom, to prevent the boring ofworms.
GULIST
A glutton. [Obs.]
GULL
To deceive; to cheat; to mislead; to trick; to defraud.The rulgar, gulled into rebellion, armed. Dryden.I'm not gulling him for the emperor's service. Coleridge.
GULLAGE
Act of being gulled. [Obs.]Had you no quirk. To avoid gullage, sir, by such a creature B. Jonson
GULLER
One who gulls; a deceiver.
GULLERY
An act, or the practice, of gulling; trickery; fraud. [R.] "Amere gullery." Selden.
GULLET
The tube by which food and drink are carried from the pharynxto the stomach; the esophagus.
GULLETING
A system of excavating by means of gullets or channels.
GULLIBLE
Easily gulled; that may be duped.-- Gul"li*bii`i*ty, n. Burke.
GULLISH
Foolish; stupid. [Obs.] Gull"ish*ness, n. [Obs.]
GULLY
A large knife. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
GULOSITY
Excessive appetite; greediness; voracity. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
GULP
To swallow eagerly, or in large draughts; to swallow up; totake down at one swallow.He does not swallow, but he gulps it down. Cowper.The old man . . . glibly gulped down the whole narrative. Fielding.To gulp up, to throw up from the stomach; to disgorge.
GULPH
See Gulf.
GULT
Guilt. See Guilt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GULTY
Guilty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GULY
Of or pertaining to gules; red. "Those fatal guly dragons."Milton.
GUM
The dense tissues which invest the teeth, and cover theadjacent parts of the jaws. Gum rash (Med.), strophulus in a teethingchild; red gum.-- Gum stick, a smooth hard substance for children to bite uponwhile teething.
GUMBOIL
A small suppurting inflamed spot on the gum.
GUMMA
A kind of soft tumor, usually of syphilitic origin.
GUMMATOUS
Belonging to, or resembling, gumma.
GUMMER
A punch-cutting tool, or machine for deepening and enlargingthe spaces between the teeth of a worn saw.
GUMMIFEROUS
Producing gum; gum-bearing.
GUMMINESS
The state or quality of being gummy; viscousness.
GUMMITE
A yellow amorphous mineral, essentially a hydrated oxide ofuranium derived from the alteration of uraninite.
GUMMOSITY
Gumminess; a viscous or adhesive quality or nature. [R.]Floyer.
GUMMOUS
Of or pertaining to a gumma.
GUMMY
Consisting of gum; viscous; adhesive; producing or containinggum; covered with gum or a substance resembling gum.Kindles the gummy bark of fir or pine. Milton.Then rubs his gummy eyes. Dryden.Gummy tumor (Med.), a gumma.
GUMP
A dolt; a dunce. [Low.] Holloway.
GUN
A piece of heavy ordnance; in a restricted sense, a cannon.
GUNA
In Sanskrit grammar, a lengthening of the simple vowels a, i,e, by prefixing an a element. The term is sometimes used to denotethe same vowel change in other languages.
GUNARCHY
See Gynarchy.
GUNBOAT
A vessel of light draught, carrying one or more guns.
GUNCOTTON
See under Gun.
GUNDELET
See Gondola. Marston.
GUNFLINT
A sharpened flint for the lock of a gun, to ignite the charge.It was in common use before the introduction of percussion caps.
GUNJAH
See Ganja.
GUNLOCK
The lock of a gun, for producing the discharge. See Lock.
GUNNAGE
The number of guns carried by a ship of war.
GUNNEL
A small, eel-shaped, marine fish of the genus Murรฆnoides; esp.,M. gunnellus of Europe and America; -- called also gunnel fish,butterfish, rock eel.
GUNNERY
That branch of military science which comprehends the theory ofprojectiles, and the manner of constructing and using ordnance.
GUNNIE
Space left by the removal of ore.
GUNNING
The act or practice of hunting or shooting game with a gun.The art of gunning was but little practiced. Goldsmith.
GUNOCRACY
See Gyneocracy.
GUNPOWDER
A black, granular, explosive substance, consisting of anintimate mechanical mixture of niter, charcoal, and sulphur. It isused in gunnery and blasting.
GUNREACH
The reach or distance to which a gun will shoot; gunshot.
GUNROOM
An apartment on the after end of the lower gun deck of a shipof war, usually occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers,except the captain; -- called wardroom in the United States navy.
GUNSHOT
Made by the shot of a gun: as. a gunshot wound.
GUNSMITH
One whose occupation is to make or repair small firearms; anarmorer.
GUNSTICK
A stick to ram down the charge of a musket, etc.; a rammer orramrod. [R.]
GUNSTOCK
The stock or wood to which the barrel of a hand gun isfastened.
GUNSTOME
A cannon ball; -- so called because originally made of stone.[Obs.] Shak.
GUNTER RIG
A topmast arranged with metal bands so that it will readilyslide up and down the lower mast.
GUNWALE
The upper edge of a vessel's or boat's side; the uppermost waleof a ship (not including the bulwarks); or that piece of timber whichreaches on either side from the quarter-deck to the forecastle, beingthe uppermost bend, which finishes the upper works of the hull.[Written also gunnel.]
GURGE
A whirlpool. [Obs.]The plain, wherein a black bituminous gurge Boils out from underground. Milton.
GURGEONS
See Grudgeons.
GURGLE
To run or flow in a broken, irregular, noisy current, as waterfrom a bottle, or a small stream among pebbles or stones.Pure gurgling rills the lonely desert trace, And waste their music onthe savage race. Young.
GURGLET
A porous earthen jar for cooling water by evaporation.
GURGLINGLY
In a gurgling manner.
GURGOYLE
See Gargoyle.
GURJUN
A thin balsam or wood oil derived from the Diptcrocarpus lรฆvis,an East Indian tree. It is used in medicine, and as a substitute forlinseed oil in the coarser kinds of paint.
GURL
A young person of either sex. [Obs.] See Girl. Chaucer.
GURLET
A pickax with one sharp point and one cutting edge. Knight.
GURMY
A level; a working.
GURNIAD
See Gwiniad.
GURRY
An alvine evacuation; also, refuse matter. [Obs. or Local]Holland.
GURT
A gutter or channel for water, hewn out of the bottom of aworking drift. Page.
GURTS
Groatts. [Obs.]
GUSHER
One who gushes. [Colloq.]
GUSHINGLY
, adv.
GUSSET
An abatement or mark of dishonor in a coat of arms, resemblinga gusset.
GUST
To taste; to have a relish for. [Obs.]
GUSTABLE
Anything that can be tasted. [Obs.]
GUSTARD
The great bustard.
GUSTATION
The act of tasting. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
GUSTATORY
Pertaining to, or subservient to, the sense of taste; as, thegustatory nerve which supplies the front of the tongue.
GUSTFUL
Tasteful; well-tasted. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.-- Gust"ful*ness, n. [Obs.] Barrow.
GUSTLESS
Tasteless; insipid. [R.]
GUSTO
Nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; relish; taste; fancy.Dryden.
GUSTOSO
Tasteful; in a tasteful, agreeable manner.
GUSTY
Subject to, or characterized by, gusts or squalls; windy;stormy; tempestuous.Upon a raw and gusty day. Shak.
GUTTA
One of a series of ornaments, in the form of a frustum of acone, attached to the lower part of the triglyphs, and also to thelower faces of the mutules, in the Doric order; -- called alsocampana, and drop. Gutta serena Etym: [L., lit. serene or clear drop](Med.), amaurosis.-- Guttรฆ band (Arch.), the listel or band from which the guttรฆ hang.
GUTTA-PERCHA
A concrete juice produced by various trees found in the Malayanarchipelago, especially by the Isonandra, or Dichopsis, Gutta. Itbecomes soft, and unpressible at the tamperature of boiling water,and, on cooling, retains its new shape. It dissolves in oils andethers, but not in water. In many of its properties it resemblescaoutchouc, and it is extensively used for many economical purposes.The Mimusops globosa of Guiana also yields this material.
GUTTATE
Spotted, as if discolored by drops.
GUTTATED
Besprinkled with drops, or droplike spots. Bailey.
GUTTATRAP
The inspissated juice of a tree of the genus Artocarpus (A.incisa, or breadfruit tree), sometimes used in making birdlime, onaccount of its glutinous quality.
GUTTER
To become channeled, as a candle when the flame flares in thewind.
GUTTIFER
A plant that exudes gum or resin.
GUTTIFORM
Drop-shaped, as a spot of color.
GUTTLE
To put into the gut; to swallow greedily; to gorge; togormandize. [Obs.] L'Estrange. Dryden.
GUTTLER
A greedy eater; a glutton. [Obs.]
GUTTULOUS
In droplike form. [Obs.]In its [hail's] guttulous descent from the air. Sir T. Browne.
GUTTURAL
Of or pertaining to the throat; formed in the throat; relatingto, or characteristic of, a sound formed in the throat.Children are occasionally born with guttural swellings. W. Guthrie.In such a sweet, guttural accent. Landor.
GUTTURALISM
The quality of being guttural; as, the gutturalism of A [in the16th cent.] Earle.
GUTTURALITY
The quality of being guttural. [R.] "The old gutturality of k."Earle.
GUTTURALIZE
To speak gutturally; to give a guttural sound to.
GUTTURALLY
In a guttural manner.
GUTTURALNESS
The quality of being guttural.
GUTTURINE
Pertaining to the throat. [Obs.] "Gutturine tumor." Ray.
GUTTURIZE
To make in the throat; to gutturalize. [R.]For which the Germans gutturize a sound. Coleridge.
GUTTURO-
A combining form denoting relation to the throat; as, gutturo-nasal, having both a guttural and a nasal character; gutturo-palatal.
GUTTY
Charged or sprinkled with drops.
GUTWORT
A plant, Globularia Alypum, a violent purgative, found inAfrica.
GUY
A rope, chain, or rod attached to anything to steady it; as: arope to steady or guide an object which is being hoisted or lowered;a rope which holds in place the end of a boom, spar, or yard in aship; a chain or wire rope connecting a suspension bridge with theland on either side to prevent lateral swaying; a rod or ropeattached to the top of a structure, as of a derrick, and extendingobliquely to the ground, where it is fastened.
GUYLE
To guile. [Obs.] Spenser.
GUZE
A roundlet of tincture sanguine, which is blazoned withoutmention of the tincture.
GUZZLE
To swallow liquor greedily; to drink much or frequently.Those that came to guzzle in his wine cellar. Milton.Well-seasoned bowls the gossip's spirits raise, Who, while sheguzzles, chats the doctor's praise. Roscommon.To fat the guzzling hogs with floods of whey. Gay.
GUZZLER
An immoderate drinker.
GWINIAD
A fish (Coregonus ferus) of North Wales and Northern Europe,allied to the lake whitefish; -- called also powan, and schelly.[Written also gwyniad, guiniad, gurniad.]
GYALL
See Gayal.
GYBE
See Gibe.
GYE
To guide; to govern. [Obs.]Discreet enough his country for to gye. Chaucer.
GYLE
Fermented wort used for making vinegar. Gyle tan (Brewing), alarge vat in which wort ferments.
GYMNAL
Same as Gimmal.
GYMNASIARCH
An Athenian officer who superintended the gymnasia, andprovided the oil and other necessaries at his own expense.
GYMNAST
One who teaches or practices gymnastic exercises; the managerof a gymnasium; an athlete.
GYMNASTIC
A gymnast. [Obs.]
GYMNASTICALLY
In a gymnastic manner.
GYMNASTICS
Athletic or disciplinary exercises; the art of performinggymnastic exercises; also, disciplinary exercises for the intellector character.
GYMNIC
Athletic exercise. [Obs.] Burton.
GYMNITE
A hydrous silicate of magnesia.
GYMNOBLASTEA
The Athecata; -- so called because the medusoid buds are notinclosed in a capsule.
GYMNOBLASTIC
Of or pertaining to the Gymnoblastea.
GYMNOCARPOUS
Naked-fruited, the fruit either smooth or not adherent to theperianth. Gray.
GYMNOCHROA
A division of Hydroidea including the hydra. See Hydra.
GYMNOCLADUS
A genus of leguminous plants; the Kentucky coffee tree. Theleaves are cathartic, and the seeds a substitute for coffee.
GYMNOCOPA
A group of transparent, free-swimming Annelida, having setaeonly in the cephalic appendages.
GYMNOCYTE
(Biol.) A cytode without a proper cell wall, but with anucleus. Haeckel.
GYMNOCYTODE
A cytode without either a cell wall or a nucleus. Haeckel.
GYMNODONT
One of a group of plectognath fishes (Gymnodontes), having theteeth and jaws consolidated into one or two bony plates, on each jaw,as the diodonts and tetradonts. See Bur fish, Globefish, Diodon.
GYMNOGEN
One of a class of plants, so called by Lindley, because theovules are fertilized by direct contact of the pollen. Same asGymnosperm.
GYMNOGLOSSA
A division of gastropods in which the odontophore is withoutteeth.
GYMNONOTI
The order of fishes which includes the Gymnotus or electricaleel. The dorsal fin is wanting.
GYMNOPAEDIC
Having young that are naked when hatched; psilopรฆdic; -- saidof certain birds.
GYMNOPHIONA
An order of Amphibia, having a long, annulated, snakelike body.See Ophiomorpha.
GYMNOPHTHALMATA
A group of acalephs, including the naked-eyed medusรฆ; thehydromedusรฆ. Most of them are known to be the free-swimming progeny(gonophores) of hydroids.
GYMNOPLAST
A cell or mass of protoplasm devoid of an envelope, as a whiteblood corpuscle.
GYMNORHINAL
Having unfeathered nostrils, as certain birds.
GYMNOSOMATA
One of the orders of Pteropoda. They have no shell.
GYMNOSOPHIST
One of a sect of philosophers, said to have been found in Indiaby Alexander the Great, who went almost naked, denied themselves theuse of flesh, renounced bodily pleasures, and employed themselves inthe contemplation of nature.
GYMNOSOPHY
The doctrines of the Gymnosophists. Good.
GYMNOSPERM
A plant that bears naked seeds (i. e., seeds not inclosed in anovary), as the common pine and hemlock. Cf. Angiosperm.
GYMNOTOKA
The Athecata.
GYMNOTUS
A genus of South American fresh-water fishes, including theGymnotus electricus, or electric eel. It has a greenish, eel-likebody, and is possessed of electric power.One fearful shock, fearful but momentary, like from the electric blowof the gymnotus. De Quincey.
GYN
To begin [Obs.] See Gin.
GYNAECIAN
The same as Gynecian.
GYNAECOPHORE
A ventral canal or groove, in which the males of some dioecioustrematodes carry the female. See Illust. of Hรฆmatozoa.
GYNANDER
A plant having the stamens inserted in the pistil.
GYNANDRIA
A class of plants in the Linnaean system, whose stamens growout of, or are united with, the pistil.
GYNANDROMORPH
An animal affected with gynandromorphism,
GYNANDROMORPHISM
An abnormal condition of certain animals, in which one side hasthe external characters of the male, and the other those of thefemale.
GYNANDROMORPHOUS
Affected, with gynandromorphism.
GYNANTHEROUS
Pertaining to an abnormal condition of the flower, in which thestamens are converted into pistils. A. Brown.
GYNARCHY
Government by a woman. Chesterfield.
GYNECEUM
See Gynรฆceum.
GYNECIAN
Of or relating to women.
GYNECOCRACY
Government by a woman, female power; gyneocracy. Bailey.
GYNECOLOGICAL
Of or pertaining to gynecology.
GYNECOLOGY
The science which treats of the structure and diseases ofwomen.-- Gyn`e*col"o*gist.
GYNEOCRACY
See Gynecocracy.
GYNEOLATRY
The adoration or worship of woman.The sentimental gyneolatry of chivalry, which was at best but skin-deep. Lowell.
GYNEPHOBIA
Hatred of women; repugnance to the society of women. Holmes.
GYNNO
To begin. See Gin. [Obs.]
GYNOBASE
A dilated base or receptacle, supporting a multilocular ovary.
GYNOBASIC
Pertaining to, or having, a gynobase.
GYNOCRACY
Female government; gynecocracy.The aforesaid state has repeatedly changed from absolute despotism torepublicanism, not forgetting the intermediate stages of oligarchy,limited monarchy, and even gynocracy; for I myself remember Alsatiagoverned for nearly nine months by an old fishwoman. Sir H. Scott.
GYNODIOECIOUS
Dioecious, but having some hermaphrodite or perfect flowers onan individual plant which bears mostly pistillate flowers.
GYNOECIUM
The pistils of a flower, taken collectively. See Illust. ofCarpophore.
GYNOPHORE
The pedicel raising the pistil or ovary above the stamens, asin the passion flower. Lindley.
GYP
A college servant; -- so called in Cambridge, England; atOxford called a scout. [Cant]
GYPSE
See Gypsum. [Obs.] Pococke.
GYPSEOUS
Resembling or containing gypsum; partaking of the qualities ofgypsum.
GYPSEY
A gypsy. See Gypsy.
GYPSIFEROUS
Containing gypsum.
GYPSINE
Gypseous. [R.] Chambers.
GYPSOGRAPHY
The act or art of engraving on gypsum.
GYPSOPLAST
A cast taken in plaster of Paris, or in white lime.
GYPSUM
A mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of lime (calcium).When calcined, it forms plaster of Paris. Selenite is a transparent,crystalline variety; alabaster, a fine, white, massive variety.
GYPSY
Pertaining to, or suitable for, gypsies. Gypsy hat, a woman'sor child's broad-brimmed hat, usually of straw or felt.-- Gypsy winch, a small winch, which may be operated by a crank, orby a ratchet and pawl through a lever working up and down.
GYPSYISM
A tussock moth (Ocneria dispar) native of the Old World, butaccidentally introduced into eastern Massachusetts about 1869, whereits caterpillars have done great damage to fruit, shade, and foresttrees of many kinds. The male gypsy moth is yellowish brown, thefemale white, and larger than the male. In both sexes the wings aremarked by dark lines and a dark lunule. The caterpillars, when full-grown, have a grayish mottled appearance, with blue tubercles on theanterior and red tubercles on the posterior part of the body, allgiving rise to long yellow and black hairs. They usually pupate inJuly and the moth appears in August. The eggs are laid on treetrunks, rocks, etc., and hatch in the spring.
GYPSYWORT
A labiate plant (the Lycopus Europรฆus). Gypsies are said tostain their skin with its juice.
GYRACANTHUS
A genus of fossil fishes, found in Devonian and carboniferousstrata; -- so named from their round, sculptured spines.
GYRAL
Pertaining to a gyrus, or convolution.
GYRANT
Gyrating. [R.]
GYRATE
Winding or coiled round; curved into a circle; taking acircular course.
GYRATION
One of the whorls of a spiral univalve shell. Center ofgyration. (Mech.) See under Center.-- Radius of gyration the distance between the axis of a rotatingbody and its center of gyration. Rankine.
GYRATORY
Moving in a circle, or spirally; revolving; whirling around.
GYRE
A circular motion, or a circle described by a moving body; aturn or revolution; a circuit.Quick and more quick he spins in giddy gyres. Dryden.Still expanding and ascending gyres. Mrs. Browning.
GYREFUL
Abounding in gyres. [Obs.]
GYRENCEPHALA
The higher orders of Mammalia, in which the cerebrum isconvoluted.-- Gyr"en*ceph"a*lous, a.
GYRFALCON
One of several species and varieties of large Arctic falcons,esp. Falco rusticolus and the white species F. Islandicus, both ofwhich are circumpolar. The black and the gray are varieties of theformer. See Illust. of Accipiter. [Written also gerfalcon,gierfalcon, and jerfalcon.]
GYRI
See Gyrus.
GYRLAND
To garland. [Obs.]
GYRODUS
A genus of extinct oรถlitic fishes, having rounded teeth inseveral rows adapted for crushing.
GYROGONITE
The petrified fruit of the Chara hispida, a species ofstonewort. See Stonewort. Lyell.
GYROIDAL
Having the planes arranged spirally, so that they incline allto the right (or left) of a vertical line; -- said of certainhemihedral forms.
GYROLEPIS
A genus of ganoid fishes, found in strata of the new redsandetone, and the lias bone beds. Agassiz.
GYROMA
A turning round. [R.]
GYROMANCY
A kind of divination performed by drawing a ring or circle, andwalking in or around it. Brande & C.
GYRON
A subordinary of triangular form having one of its angles atthe fess point and the opposite aide at the edge of the escutcheon.When there is only one gyron on the shield it is bounded by two lineadrawn from the fess point, one horizontally to the dexter side, andone to the dexter chief corner.
GYRONNY
Covered with gyrons, or divided so as to form several gyrons; -- said of an escutcheon.
GYROSCOPIC
Pertaining to the gyroscope; resembling the motion of thegyroscope.
GYROSE
Turned round like a crook, or bent to and fro. Loudon.
GYROSTAT
A modification of the gyroscope, consisting essentially of afly wheel fixed inside a rigid case to which is attached a thinflange of metal for supporting the instrument. It is used in studyingthe dynamics of rotating bodies.
GYROSTATIC
Of or pertaining to the gyrostat or to gyrostatics.
GYROSTATICS
The doctrine or theory of the gyrostat, or of the phenomena ofrotating bodies.
GYRUS
A convoluted ridge between grooves; a convolution; as, the gyriof the brain; the gyri of brain coral. See Brain.
GYSE
Guise. [Obs.] Chaucer.
GYTE
Delirious; senselessly extravagant; as, the man is clean gyte.[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
GYVE
A shackle; especially, one to confine the legs; a fetter.[Written also give.]Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves. Shak.With gyves upon his wrist. Hood.
H
the eighth letter of the English alphabet, is classed among theconsonants, and is formed with the mouth organs in the same positionas that of the succeeding vowel. It is used with certain consonantsto form digraphs representing sounds which are not found in thealphabet, as sh, th, th, as in shall, thing, thine (for zh see ยง274);also, to modify the sounds of some other letters, as when placedafter c and p, with the former of which it represents a compoundsound like that of tsh, as in charm (written also tch as in catch),with the latter, the sound of f, as in phase, phantom. In some words,mostly derived or introduced from foreign languages, h following cand g indicates that those consonants have the hard sound before e,i, and y, as in chemistry, chiromancy, chyle, Ghent, Ghibelline,etc.; in some others, ch has the sound of sh, as in chicane. SeeGuide to Pronunciation, ยงยง 153, 179, 181-3, 237-8.
HA
An exclamation denoting surprise, joy, or grief. Both asuttered and as written, it expresses a great variety of emotions,determined by the tone or the context. When repeated, ha, ha, it isan expression of laughter, satisfaction, or triumph, sometimes ofderisive laughter; or sometimes it is equivalent to "Well, it is so."Ha-has, and inarticulate hootings of satirical rebuke. Carlyle.
HA-HA
A sunk fence; a fence, wall, or ditch, not visible till one isclose upon it. [Written also haw-haw.]
HAAF
The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the ShetlandIsles.
HAAK
A sea fish. See Hake. Ash.
HAAR
A fog; esp., a fog or mist with a chill wind. [Scot.] T.Chalmers.
HABEAS CORPUS
A writ having for its object to bring a party before a court orjudge; especially, one to inquire into the cause of a person'simprisonment or detention by another, with the view to protect theright to personal liberty; also, one to bring a prisoner into courtto testify in a pending trial. Bouvier.
HABENDUM
That part of a deed which follows the part called the premises,and determines the extent of the interest or estate granted; -- socalled because it begins with the word Habendum. Kent.
HABERDASH
To deal in small wares. [R.]To haberdash in earth's base ware. Quarles.
HABERDASHERY
The goods and wares sold by a haberdasher; also (Fig.),trifles. Burke.
HABERDINE
A cod salted and dried. Ainsworth.
HABERGEON
Properly, a short hauberk, but often used loosely for thehauberk. Chaucer.
HABILATORY
Of or pertaining to clothing; wearing clothes. Ld. Lytton.
HABILE
Fit; qualified; also, apt. [Obs.] Spenser.
HABILIMENT
Dress, in general. Shak.
HABILIMENTED
Clothed. Taylor (1630).
HABILITATE
Qualified or entitled. [Obs.] Bacon.
HABILITATION
Equipment; qualification. [Obs.] Bacon.
HABILITY
Ability; aptitude. [Obs.] Robynson. (More's Utopia).
HABIT
The general appearance and manner of life of a living organism.
HABITABILITY
Habitableness.
HABITABLE
Capable of being inhabited; that may be inhabited or dwelt in;as, the habitable world.-- Hab"it*a*ble*ness, n.-- Hab"it*a*bly, adv.
HABITAN
Same as Habitant, 2.General met an emissary . . . sent . . . to ascertain the feelings ofthe habitans or French yeomanry. W. Irwing.
HABITANCE
Dwelling; abode; residence. [Obs.] Spenser.
HABITANCY
Same as Inhabitancy.
HABITANT
An inhabitant or resident; -- a name applied to and denotingfarmers of French descent or origin in Canada, especially in theProvince of Quebec; -- usually in plural.The habitants or cultivators of the soil. Parkman.
HABITAT
The natural abode, locality or region of an animal or plant.
HABITATOR
A dweller; an inhabitant. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
HABITUATE
Firmly established by custom; formed by habit; habitual. [R.]Hammond.
HABITUATION
The act of habituating, or accustoming; the state of beinghabituated.
HABITUE
One who habitually frequents a place; as, an habituรฉ of atheater.
HABITURE
Habitude. [Obs.]
HABITUS
Habitude; mode of life; general appearance.
HABLE
See Habile. [Obs.] Spenser.
HABNAB
By chance. [Obs.]
HACHURE
A short line used in drawing and engraving, especially inshading and denoting different surfaces, as in map drawing. SeeHatching.
HACIENDA
A large estate where work of any kind is done, as agriculture,manufacturing, mining, or raising of animals; a cultivated farm, witha good house, in distinction from a farming establishment with rudehuts for herdsmen, etc.; -- a word used in Spanish-American regions.1.
HACK
To cough faintly and frequently, or in a short, broken manner;as, a hacking cough.
HACKAMORE
A halter consisting of a long leather or rope strap andheadstall, -- used for leading or tieing a pack animal. [WesternU.S.]
HACKBERRY
A genus of trees (Celtis) related to the elm, but bearingdrupes with scanty, but often edible, pulp. C. occidentalis is commonin the Eastern United States. Gray.
HACKBOLT
The greater shearwater or hagdon. See Hagdon.
HACKBUSS
Same as Hagbut.
HACKEE
The chipmunk; also, the chickaree or red squirrel. [U.S.]
HACKER
One who, or that which, hacks. Specifically: A cuttinginstrument for making notches; esp., one used for notching pine treesin collecting turpentine; a hack.
HACKERY
A cart with wooden wheels, drawn by bullocks. [Bengal] Malcom.
HACKLY
Having fine, short, and sharp points on the surface; as, thehackly fracture of metallic iron.
HACKMAN
The driver of a hack or carriage for public hire.
HACKMATACK
The American larch (Larix Americana), a coniferous tree withslender deciduous leaves; also, its heavy, close-grained timber.Called also tamarack.
HACKNEY
Let out for hire; devoted to common use; hence, much used;trite; mean; as, hackney coaches; hackney authors. "Hackney tongue."Roscommon.
HACKNEYMAN
A man who lets horses and carriages for hire.
HACKSTER
A bully; a bravo; a ruffian; an assassin. [Obs.] Milton.
HACQUETON
Same as Acton. [Obs.]
HAD
See Have. Had as lief, Had rather, Had better, Had as soon,etc., with a nominative and followed by the infinitive without to,are well established idiomatic forms. The original construction wasthat of the dative with forms of be, followed by the infinitive. SeeHad better, under Better.And lever me is be pore and trewe. [And more agreeable to me it is tobe poor and true.] C. Mundi (Trans. ).Him had been lever to be syke. [To him it had been preferable to besick.] Fabian.For him was lever have at his bed's head Twenty bookes, clad in blackor red, . . . Than robes rich, or fithel, or gay sawtrie. Chaucer.
HADDER
Heather; heath. [Obs.] Burton.
HADDIE
The haddock. [Scot.]
HADDOCK
A marine food fish (Melanogrammus รฆglefinus), allied to thecod, inhabiting the northern coasts of Europe and America. It has adark lateral line and a black spot on each side of the body, justback of the gills. Galled also haddie, and dickie. Norway haddock, amarine edible fish (Sebastes marinus) of Northern Europe and America.See Rose fish.
HADE
The inclination or deviation from the vertical of any mineralvein.
HADES
The nether world (according to classical mythology, the abodeof the shades, ruled over by Hades or Pluto); the invisible world;the grave.And death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them. Rev. xx. 13(Rev. Ver. ).Neither was he left in Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. Actsii. 31 (Rev. Ver.).And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments. Luke xvi.23(Rev. Ver.).
HADJ
The pilgrimage to Mecca, performed by Mohammedans.
HADROSAURUS
An American herbivorous dinosaur of great size, allied to theiguanodon. It is found in the Cretaceous formation.
HAECCEITY
Literally, this-ness. A scholastic term to expressindividuality or singleness; as, this book.
HAEMACHROME
Hematin.
HAEMACYANIN
A substance found in the blood of the octopus, which gives toit its blue color.
HAEMACYTOMETER
An apparatus for determining the number of corpuscles in agiven quantity of blood.
HAEMAD
Toward the hรฆmal side; on the hรฆmal side of; -- opposed toneurad.
HAEMADROMOGRAPH
An instrument for registering the velocity of the blood.
HAEMADYNAMICS
Same as Hemadynamics.
HAEMAL
Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. SeeHemal.
HAEMAPHAEIN
A brownish substance sometimes found in the blood, in cases ofjaundice.
HAEMAPOD
An hรฆmapodous animal. G. Rolleston.
HAEMAPODOUS
Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the ventral or hemalside, as in vertebrates; -- opposed to neuropodous.
HAEMAPOIETIC
Bloodforming; as, the hรฆmapoietic function of the spleen.
HAEMAPOPHYSIS
Same as Hemapophysis.-- Hรฆm`a*po*phys"i*al, a.
HAEMASTATICS
Same as Hemastatics.
HAEMATACHOMETER
A form of apparatus (somewhat different from the hemadrometer)for measuring the velocity of the blood.
HAEMATACHOMETRY
The measurement of the velocity of the blood.
HAEMATEMESIS
Same as Hematemesis.
HAEMATIC
Of or pertaining to the blood; sanguine; brownish red. Hรฆmaticacid (Physiol.), a hypothetical acid, supposed to be formed fromhemoglobin during its oxidation in the lungs, and to have the powerof freeing carbonic acid from the sodium carbonate of the serum.Thudichum.
HAEMATIN
Same as Hematin.
HAEMATINOMETER
Same as Hematinometer.
HAEMATINOMETRIC
Same as Hematinometric.
HAEMATITE
Same as Hematite.
HAEMATITIC
Of a blood-red color; crimson; (Bot.) brownish red.
HAEMATO-
See Hรฆma-.
HAEMATOBLAST
One of the very minute, disk-shaped bodies found in blood withthe ordinary red corpuscles and white corpuscles; a third kind ofblood corpuscle, supposed by some to be an early stage in thedevelopment of the red corpuscles; -- called also blood plaque, andblood plate.
HAEMATOCRYA
The cold-blooded vertebrates. Same as Hematocrya.
HAEMATOCRYAL
Cold-blooded.
HAEMATOCRYSTALLIN
Same as Hematocrystallin.
HAEMATODYNAMOMETER
Same as Hemadynamometer.
HAEMATOGENIC
Relating to hรฆmatogenesis.
HAEMATOGENOUS
Originating in the blood.
HAEMATOGLOBULIN
Same as Hematoglobin.
HAEMATOID
Same as Hematoid.
HAEMATOIDIN
Same as Hematoidin.
HAEMATOIN
A substance formed from the hematin of blood, by removal of theiron through the action of concentrated sulphuric acid. Two likebodies, called respectively hรฆmatoporphyrin and hรฆmatolin, are formedin a similar manner.
HAEMATOLIN
See Hรฆmatoin.
HAEMATOLOGY
The science which treats of the blood. Same as Hematology.
HAEMATOLYSIS
Dissolution of the red blood corpuscles with diminishedcoagulability of the blood; hรฆmolysis. -- Hรฆm`a*to*lyt"ic (#), a.
HAEMATOPHILINA
A division of Cheiroptera, including the bloodsucking bats. SeeVampire.
HAEMATOPLAST
Same as Hรฆmatoblast.
HAEMATOPLASTIC
Blood formative; -- applied to a substance in early fetal life,which breaks up gradually into blood vessels.
HAEMATOPORPHYRIN
See Hรฆmatoin.
HAEMATOSAC
A vascular sac connected, beneath the brain, in many fishes,with the infundibulum.
HAEMATOSCOPE
A hรฆmoscope.
HAEMATOSIN
Hematin. [R.]
HAEMATOSIS
Same as Hematosis.
HAEMATOTHERMA
Same as Hematotherma.
HAEMATOTHERMAL
Warm-blooded; homoiothermal.
HAEMATOTHORAX
Same as Hemothorax.
HAEMATOXYLIN
The coloring principle of logwood. It is obtained as a yellowcrystalline substance, C16H14O6, with a sweetish taste. Formerlycalled also hematin.
HAEMATOXYLON
A genus of leguminous plants containing but a single species,the H. Campechianum or logwood tree, native in Yucatan.
HAEMIC
,
HAEMIN
Same as Hemin.
HAEMO-
See Hรฆma-.
HAEMOCHROME
Same as Hรฆmachrome.
HAEMOCHROMOGEN
A body obtained from hemoglobin, by the action of reducingagents in the absence of oxygen.
HAEMOCHROMOMETER
An apparatus for measuring the amount of hemoglobin in a fluid,by comparing it with a solution of known strength and of normalcolor.
HAEMOCYANIN
Same as Hรฆmacyanin.
HAEMOCYTOLYSIS
See Hรฆmocytotrypsis.
HAEMOCYTOMETER
See Hรฆmacytometer.
HAEMOCYTOTRYPSIS
A breaking up of the blood corpuscles, as by pressure, indistinction from solution of the corpuscles, or hรฆmcytolysis.
HAEMODROMOGRAPH
Same as Hรฆmadromograph.
HAEMODROMOMETER
Same as Hemadrometer.
HAEMODYNAMETER
Same as Hemadynamics.
HAEMODYNAMICS
Same as Hemadynamics.
HAEMOGLOBIN
Same as Hemoglobin.
HAEMOGLOBINOMETER
Same as Hemochromometer.
HAEMOL
A dark brown powder containing iron, prepared by the action ofzinc dust as a reducing agent upon the coloring matter of the blood,used medicinally as a hematinic.
HAEMOLUTEIN
See Hematoidin.
HAEMOMANOMETER
Same as Hemadynamometer.
HAEMOMETER
Same as Hemadynamometer.
HAEMONY
A plant described by Milton as "of sovereign use against allenchantments."
HAEMOPLASTIC
Same as Hรฆmatoplastic.
HAEMORRHOIDAL
Same as Hemorrhoidal.
HAEMOSCOPE
An instrument devised by Hermann, for regulating and measuringthe thickness of a layer of blood for spectroscopic examination.
HAEMOSTATIC
Same Hemostatic.
HAEMOTACHOMETER
Same as Hรฆmatachometer.
HAEMOTACHOMETRY
Same as Hรฆmatachometry.
HAF
Hove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HAFFLE
To stammer; to speak unintelligibly; to prevaricate.[Prov.Eng.] Halliwell.
HAFT
To set in, or furnish with, a haft; as, to haft a dagger.
HAFTER
A caviler; a wrangler. [Obs.] Baret.
HAG
An eel-like marine marsipobranch (Myxine glutinosa), allied tothe lamprey. It has a suctorial mouth, with labial appendages, and asingle pair of gill openings. It is the type of the orderHyperotpeta. Called also hagfish, borer, slime eel, sucker, andsleepmarken.
HAG-RIDDEN
Ridden by a hag or witch; hence, afflicted with nightmare.Beattie. Cheyne.
HAG-TAPER
The great woolly mullein (Verbascum Thapsus).
HAGBERRY
A plant of the genus Prunus (P. Padus); the bird cherry.[Scot.]
HAGBORN
Born of a hag or witch. Shak.
HAGBUT
A harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked forconvenience in taking aim. [Written also haguebut and hackbuss.]
HAGBUTTER
A soldier armed with a hagbut or arquebus. [Written alsohackbutter.] Froude.
HAGDON
One of several species of sea birds of the genus Puffinus;esp., P. major, the greater shearwarter, and P. Stricklandi, theblack hagdon or sooty shearwater; -- called also hagdown, haglin, andhag. See Shearwater.
HAGFISH
See Hag, 4.
HAGGADA
A story, anecdote, or legend in the Talmud, to explain orillustrate the text of the Old Testament. [Written also hadaga.]
HAGGARD
Having the expression of one wasted by want or suffering;hollow-eyed; having the features distorted or wasted, or anxious inappearance; as, haggard features, eyes.Staring his eyes, and haggard was his look. Dryden.
HAGGARDLY
In a haggard manner. Dryden.
HAGGED
Like a hag; lean; ugly. [R.]
HAGGIS
A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of asheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highlyseasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced headand pluck. [Written also haggiss, haggess, and haggies.]
HAGGISH
Like a hag; ugly; wrinkled.But on both did haggish age steal on. Shak.
HAGGISHLY
In the manner of a hag.
HAGGLE
To cut roughly or hack; to cut into small pieces; to notch orcut in an unskillful manner; to make rough or mangle by cutting; as,a boy haggles a stick of wood.Suffolk first died, and York, all haggled o'er, Comes to him, wherein gore he lay insteeped. Shak.
HAGIARCHY
A sacred government; by holy orders of men. Southey.
HAGIOCRACY
Government by a priesthood; hierarchy.
HAGIOGRAPHA
The lives of the saints. Brande & C.
HAGIOGRAPHAL
, Pertaining to the hagiographa, or to sacred writings.
HAGIOGRAPHER
One of the writers of the hagiographa; a writer of lives of thesaints. Shipley.
HAGIOGRAPHY
Same Hagiographa.
HAGIOLATRY
The invocation or worship of saints.
HAGIOLOGIST
One who treats of the sacred writings; a writer of the lives ofthe saints; a hagiographer. Tylor.Hagiologists have related it without scruple. Southey.
HAGIOLOGY
The history or description of the sacred writings or of sacredpersons; a narrative of the lives of the saints; a catalogue ofsaints. J. H. Newman.
HAGIOSCOPE
An opening made in the interior walls of a cruciform church toafford a view of the altar to those in the transepts; -- called, inarchitecture, a squint. Hook.
HAGSEED
The offspring of a hag. Shak.
HAGSHIP
The state or title of a hag. Middleton.
HAGUE TRIBUNAL
The permanent court of arbitration created by the"International Convention for the Pacific Settle of InternationalDisputes.", adopted by the International Peace Conference of 1899. Itis composed of persons of known competency in questions ofinternational law, nominated by the signatory powers. From thesepersons an arbitration tribunal is chosen by the parties to adifference submitted to the court. On the failure of the parties toagree directly on the arbitrators, each chooses two arbitrators, anumpire is selected by them, by a third power, or by two powersselected by the parties.
HAGUEBUT
See Hagbut.
HAH
Same as Ha.
HAIDINGERITE
A mineral consisting of the arseniate of lime; -- so named inhonor of W. Haidinger, of Vienna.
HAIDUCK
Formerly, a mercenary foot soldier in Hungary, now, ahalberdier of a Hungarian noble, or an attendant in German orHungarian courts. [Written also hayduck, heiduc, heiduck, andheyduk.]
HAIK
A large piece of woolen or cotton cloth worn by Arabs as anouter garment. [Written also hyke.] Heyse.
HAIKAL
The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of aCoptic church. It contains the high altar, and is usually closed byan embroidered curtain.
HAIKWAN
Chinese maritime customs.
HAIKWAN TAEL
A Chinese weight ( 1/10 catty) equivalent to 1 1/3 oz. or37.801 g.
HAIL
Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds,where they are formed by the congelation of vapor. The separatemasses or grains are called hailstones.Thunder mixed with hail, Hail mixed with fire, must rend the Egyptiansky. Milton.
HAIL-FELLOW
An intimate companion.Hail-fellow well met. Lyly.
HAILSE
To greet; to salute. [Obs.] P. Plowman.
HAILSHOT
Small shot which scatter like hailstones. [Obs.] Hayward.
HAILSTONE
A single particle of ice falling from a cloud; a frozenraindrop; a pellet of hail.
HAILSTORM
A storm accompanied with hail; a shower of hail.
HAILY
Of hail. "Haily showers." Pope.
HAIN
To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass. "A ground . . .hained in." Holland.
HAIR
A slender outgrowth from the chitinous cuticle of insects,spiders, crustaceans, and other invertebrates. Such hairs are totallyunlike those of vertebrates in structure, composition, and mode ofgrowth.
HAIR GRASS
A grass with very slender leaves or branches; as the Agrostisscabra, and several species of Aira or Deschampsia.
HAIR-BROWN
Of a clear tint of brown, resembling brown human hair. It iscomposed of equal proportions of red and green.
HAIR-SALT
A variety of native Epsom salt occurring in silky fibers.
HAIRBELL
See Harebell.
HAIRBIRD
The chipping sparrow.
HAIRBRAINED
See Harebrained.
HAIRBREADTH
Having the breadth of a hair; very narrow; as, a hairbreadthescape.
HAIRBRUSH
A brush for cleansing and smoothing the hair.
HAIRCLOTH
Stuff or cloth made wholly or in part of hair.
HAIRDRESSER
One who dresses or cuts hair; a barber.
HAIREN
Hairy. [Obc.]His hairen shirt and his ascetic diet. J. Taylor.
HAIRINESS
The state of abounding, or being covered, with hair. Johnson.
HAIRLESS
Destitute of hair. Shak.
HAIRPIN
A pin, usually forked, or of bent wire, for fastening the hairin place, -- used by women.
HAIRSPLITTER
One who makes excessively nice or needless distinctions inreasoning; one who quibbles. "The caviling hairsplitter." De Quincey.
HAIRSPLITTING
Making excessively nice or trivial distinctions in reasoning;subtle.-- n.
HAIRSPRING
The slender recoil spring which regulates the motion of thebalance in a timepiece.
HAIRSTREAK
A butterfly of the genus Thecla; as, the green hairstreak (T.rubi).
HAIRTAIL
Any species of marine fishes of the genus Trichiurus; esp., T.lepterus of Europe and America. They are long and like a band, with aslender, pointed tail. Called also bladefish.
HAIRWORM
A nematoid worm of the genus Gordius, resembling a hair. SeeGordius.
HAIRY
Bearing or covered with hair; made of or resembling hair; roughwith hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; hirsute.His mantle hairy, and his bonnet sedge. Milton.
HAITIAN
See Haytian.
HAJE
The Egyptian asp or cobra (Naja haje.) It is related to thecobra of India, and like the latter has the power of inflating itsneck into a hood. Its bite is very venomous. It is supposed to be thesnake by means of whose bite Cleopatra committed suicide, and henceis sometimes called Cleopatra's snake or asp. See Asp.
HAKE
A drying shed, as for unburned tile.
HAKETON
Same as Acton. [Obs.]
HAKIM
A wise man; a physician, esp. a Mohammedan. [India]
HALACHA
The general term for the Hebrew oral or traditional law; one oftwo branches of exposition in the Midrash. See Midrash.
HALATION
An appearance as of a halo of light, surround the edges of darkobject
HALBERD
An ancient long-handled weapon, of which the head had a pointand several long, sharp edges, curved or straight, and sometimesadditional points. The heads were sometimes of very elaborate form.[Written also halbert.]
HALBERD-SHAPED
Hastate.
HALBERDIER
One who is armed with a halberd. Strype.
HALCYON
A kingfisher. By modern ornithologists restricted to a genusincluding a limited number of species having omnivorous habits, asthe sacred kingfisher (Halcyon sancta) of Australia.Amidst our arms as quiet you shall be As halcyons brooding on awinter sea. Dryden.
HALCYONIAN
Halcyon; calm.
HALCYONOID
See Alcyonoid.
HALE
Sound; entire; healthy; robust; not impaired; as, a hale body.Last year we thought him strong and hale. Swift.
HALESIA
A genus of American shrubs containing several species, calledsnowdrop trees, or silver-bell trees. They have showy, white flowers,drooping on slender pedicels.
HALF
In an equal part or degree; in some paas, half-colored, halfdone, half-hearted, half persuaded, half conscious. "Half loth andhalf consenting." Dryden.Their children spoke halfin the speech of Ashdod. Neh. xiii. 24
HALF NELSON
A hold in which one arm is thrust under the corresponding armof the opponent, generally behind, and the hand placed upon the backof his neck. In the full nelson both hands are so placed.
HALF SEAS OVER
Half drunk. [Slang: used only predicatively.] Spectator.
HALF-AND-HALF
A mixture of two malt liquors, esp. porter and ale, in aboutequal parts. Dickens.
HALF-BOOT
A boot with a short top covering only the ankle. See Cocker,and Congress boot, under Congress.
HALF-BOUND
Having only the back and corners in leather, as a book.
HALF-BREED
Half-blooded.
HALF-BROTHER
A brother by one parent, but not by both.
HALF-CASTE
One born of a European parent on the one side, and of a Hindooor Mohammedan on the other. Also adjective; as, half-caste parents.
HALF-CLAMMED
Half-filled. [Obs.]Lions' half-clammed entrails roar food. Marston.
HALF-CRACKED
Half-demented; half-witted. [Colloq.]
HALF-DECK
A shell of the genus Crepidula; a boat shell. See Boat shell.
HALF-DECKED
Partially decked.The half-decked craft . . . used by the latter Vikings. Elton.
HALF-FACED
Showing only part of the face; wretched looking; meager. Shak.
HALF-FISH
A salmon in its fifth year of growth. [Prov. Eng.]
HALF-HATCHED
Imperfectly hatched; as, half-hatched eggs. Gay.
HALF-HEARD
Imperfectly or partly heard to the end.And leave half-heard the melancholy tale. Pope.
HALF-HOURLY
Done or happening at intervals of half an hour.
HALF-LEARNED
Imperfectly learned.
HALF-LENGTH
Of half the whole or ordinary length, as a picture.
HALF-MAST
A point some distance below the top of a mast or staff; as, aflag a half-mast (a token of mourning, etc.).
HALF-MOON
An outwork composed of two faces, forming a salient angle whosegorge resembles a half-moon; -- now called a ravelin.
HALF-PENNY
An English coin of the value of half a penny; also, the valueof half a penny.
HALF-PIKE
A short pike, sometimes carried by officers of infantry,sometimes used in boarding ships; a spontoon. Tatler.
HALF-PORT
One half of a shutter made in two parts for closing a porthole.
HALF-RAY
A straight line considered as drawn from a center to anindefinite distance in one direction, the complete ray being thewhole line drawn to an indefinite distance in both directions.
HALF-READ
Informed by insufficient reading; superficial; shallow. Dryden.
HALF-SIGHTED
Seeing imperfectly; having weak discernment. Bacon.
HALF-SISTER
A sister by one parent only.
HALF-STRAINED
Half-bred; imperfect. [R.] "A half-strained villain." Dryden.
HALF-SWORD
Half the length of a sword; close fight. "At half-sword." Shak.
HALF-TIMBERED
Constructed of a timber frame, having the spaces filled in withmasonry; -- said of buildings.
HALF-TONE
Having, consisting of, or pertaining to, half tones; specif.(Photo-engraving),
HALF-TONGUE
A jury, for the trial of a fore foreigner, composed equally ofcitizens and aliens.
HALF-WIT
A foolish; a dolt; a blockhead; a dunce. Dryden.
HALF-WITTED
Weak in intellect; silly.
HALF-YEARLY
Two in a year; semiannual.-- adv. Twice in a year; semiannually.
HALFBEAK
Any slender, marine fish of the genus Hemirhamphus, having theupper jaw much shorter than the lower; -- called also balahoo.
HALFCOCK
To set the cock of (a firearm) at the first notch. To go offhalfcocked. (a) To be discharged prematurely, or with the trigger athalf cock; -- said of a firearm. (b) To do or say something withoutdue thought or care. [Colloq. or Low]
HALFEN
Wanting half its due qualities. [Obs.] Spencer.
HALFENDEAL
Half; by the part. [Obs.] Chaucer.-- n.
HALFNESS
The quality of being half; incompleteness. [R.]As soon as there is any departure from simplicity, and attempt athalfness, or good for me that is not good for him, my neighbor feelsthe wrong. Emerson.
HALFPACE
A platform of a staircase where the stair turns back in exactlythe reverse direction of the lower flight. See Quarterpace.
HALFWAY
In the middle; at half the distance; imperfectly; partially;as, he halfway yielded.Temples proud to meet their gods halfway. Young.
HALIBUT
A large, northern, marine flatfish (Hippoglossus vulgaris), ofthe family Pleuronectidรฆ. It often grows very large, weighing morethan three hundred pounds. It is an important food fish. [Writtenalso holibut.]
HALICHONDRIAE
An order of sponges, having simple siliceous spicules andkeratose fibers; -- called also Keratosilicoidea.
HALICORE
Same as Dugong.
HALIEUTICS
A treatise upon fish or the art of fishing; ichthyology.
HALIOGRAPHER
One who writes about or describes the sea.
HALIOGRAPHY
Description of the sea; the science that treats of the sea.
HALIOTIS
A genus of marine shells; the ear-shells. See Abalone.
HALIOTOID
Like or pertaining to the genus Haliotis; ear-shaped.
HALISAURIA
The Enaliosauria.
HALITE
Native salt; sodium chloride.
HALITUOUS
Produced by, or like, breath; vaporous. Boyle.
HALK
A nook; a corner. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HALL-MARK
The official stamp of the Goldsmiths' Company and other assayoffices, in the United Kingdom, on gold and silver articles,attesting their purity. Also used figuratively; -- as, a word orphrase lacks the hall-mark of the best writers.
HALLAGE
A fee or toll paid for goods sold in a hall.
HALLELUJATIC
Pertaining to, or containing, hallelujahs. [R.]
HALLIARD
See Halyard.
HALLIDOME
Same as Halidom.
HALLIER
A kind of net for catching birds.
HALLOA
See Halloo.
HALLOO
A loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite aperson or an animal; a shout.List! List! I hear Some far off halloo break the silent air. Milton.
HALLOW
To make holy; to set apart for holy or religious use; toconsecrate; to treat or keep as sacred; to reverence. "Hallowed bethy name." Matt. vi. 9.Hallow the Sabbath day, to do no work therein. Jer. xvii. 24.His secret altar touched with hallowed fire. Milton.In a larger sense . . . we can not hallow this ground [Gettysburg].A. Lincoln.
HALLOWEEN
The evening preceding Allhallows or All Saints' Day. [Scot.]Burns.
HALLOWMAS
The feast of All Saints, or Allhallows.To speak puling, like a beggar at Hallowmas. Shak.
HALLOYSITE
A claylike mineral, occurring in soft, smooth, amorphousmasses, of a whitish color.
HALLUCAL
Of or pertaining to the hallux.
HALLUCINATE
To wander; to go astray; to err; to blunder; -- used of mentalprocesses. [R.] Byron.
HALLUCINATION
The perception of objects which have no reality, or ofsensations which have no corresponding external cause, arising fromdisorder or the nervous system, as in delirium tremens; delusion.Hallucinations are always evidence of cerebral derangement and arecommon phenomena of insanity. W. A. Hammond.
HALLUCINATOR
One whose judgment and acts are affected by hallucinations; onewho errs on account of his hallucinations. N. Brit. Rev.
HALLUCINATORY
Partaking of, or tending to produce, hallucination.
HALLUX
The first, or preaxial, digit of the hind limb, correspondingto the pollux in the fore limb; the great toe; the hind toe of birds.
HALM
Same as Haulm.
HALMA
The long jump, with weights in the hands, -- the most importantof the exercises of the Pentathlon.
HALO
To form, or surround with, a halo; to encircle with, or aswith, a halo.The fire That haloed round his saintly brow. Sothey.
HALOED
Surrounded with a halo; invested with an ideal glory;glorified.Some haloed face bending over me. C. Brontรฉ.
HALOGEN
An electro-negative element or radical, which, by combinationwith a metal, forms a haloid salt; especially, chlorine, bromine, andiodine; sometimes, also, fluorine and cyanogen. See Chlorine family,under Chlorine.
HALOGENOUS
Of the nature of a halogen.
HALOID
Resembling salt; -- said of certain binary compounds consistingof a metal united to a negative element or radical, and now chieflyapplied to the chlorides, bromides, iodides, and sometimes also tothe fluorides and cyanides.-- n.
HALOMANCY
See Alomancy.
HALOMETER
An instrument for measuring the forms and angles of salts andcrystals; a goniometer.
HALONES
Alternating transparent and opaque white rings which are seenoutside the blastoderm, on the surface of the developing egg of thehen and other birds.
HALOPHYTE
A plant found growing in salt marshes, or in the sea.
HALOSCOPE
An instrument for exhibition or illustration of the phenomenaof halos, parhelia, and the like.
HALOTRICHITE
An iron alum occurring in silky fibrous aggregates of ayellowish white color.
HALOXYLINE
An explosive mixture, consisting of sawdust, charcoal, niter,and ferrocyanide of potassium, used as a substitute for gunpowder.
HALP
Helped. [Obs.]
HALPACE
See Haut pas.
HALS
The neck or throat. [Obs.]Do me hangen by the hals. Chaucer.
HALSE
To haul; to hoist. [Obs.]
HALSENING
Sounding harshly in the throat; inharmonious; rough. [Obs.]Carew.
HALSER
See Hawser. Pope.
HALT
3d pers. sing. pres. of Hold, contraction for holdeth. [Obs.]Chaucer.
HALTER
One who halts or limps
HALTER-SACK
A term of reproach, implying that one is fit to be hanged.[Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
HALTERES
Balancers; the rudimentary hind wings of Diptera.
HALTINGLY
In a halting or limping manner.
HALVANS
Impure ore; dirty ore.
HALVE
A half. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HALVED
Appearing as if one side, or one half, were cut away;dimidiate.
HALVES
pl. of Half. By halves, by one half at once; halfway;fragmentarily; partially; incompletely.I can not believe by halves; either I have faith, or I have it not.J. H. Newman.To go halves. See under Go.
HALWE
A saint. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HALYSITES
A genus of Silurian fossil corals; the chain corals. See Chaincoral, under Chain.
HAM
Home. [North of Eng.] Chaucer.
HAMADRYAD
A tree nymph whose life ended with that of the particular tree,usually an oak, which had been her abode.
HAMADRYAS
The sacred baboon of Egypt (Cynocephalus Hamadryas).
HAMAL
In Turkey and other Oriental countries, a porter or burdenbearer; specif., in Western India, a palanquin bearer.
HAMAMELIS
A genus of plants which includes the witch-hazel (HamamelisVirginica), a preparation of which is used medicinally.
HAMATE
Hooked; bent at the end into a hook; hamous.
HAMATED
Hooked, or set with hooks; hamate. Swift.
HAMATUM
See Unciform.
HAMBLE
To hamstring. [Obs.]
HAMBURG
A commercial city of Germany, near the mouth of the Elbe. BlackHamburg grape. See under Black.-- Hamburg , a kind of embroidered work done by machinery on cambricor muslin; -- used for trimming.-- Hamburg lake, a purplish crimson pigment resembling cochineal.
HAME
Home. [Scot. & O. Eng.]
HAMEL
Same as Hamele.
HAMFATTER
A low-grade actor or performer. [Theatrical Slang]
HAMIFORM
Hook-shaped.
HAMILTON PERIOD
A subdivision of the Devonian system of America; -- so namedfrom Hamilton, Madison Co., New York. It includes the Marcellus,Hamilton, and Genesee epochs or groups. See the Chart of Geology.
HAMINURA
A large edible river fish (Erythrinus macrodon) of Guiana.
HAMITE
A fossil cephalopod of the genus Hamites, related to theammonites, but having the last whorl bent into a hooklike form.
HAMITIC
Pertaining to Ham or his descendants. Hamitic languages, thegroup of languages spoken mainly in the Sahara, Egypt, Galla, andSomรขli Land, and supposed to be allied to the Semitic. Keith Johnson.
HAMLET
A small village; a little cluster of houses in the country.The country wasted, and the hamlets burned. Dryden.
HAMLETED
Confined to a hamlet. Feltham.
HAMMER
That part of a gunlock which strikes the percussion cap, orfiring pin; the cock; formerly, however, a piece of steel coveringthe pan of a flintlock musket and struck by the flint of the cock toignite the priming.(e) Also, a person of thing that smites or shatters; as, St.Augustine was the hammer of heresies.He met the stern legionaries [of Rome] who had been the "massive ironhammers" of the whole earth. J. H. Newman.Atmospheric hammer, a dead-stroke hammer in which the spring isformed by confined air.-- Drop hammer, Face hammer, etc. See under Drop, Face, etc.-- Hammer fish. See Hammerhead.-- Hammer hardening, the process of hardening metal by hammering itwhen cold.-- Hammer shell (Zoรถl.), any species of Malleus, a genus of marinebivalve shells, allied to the pearl oysters, having the wings narrowand elongated, so as to give them a hammer-shaped outline; -- calledalso hammer oyster.-- To bring to the hammer, to put up at auction.
HAMMER BREAK
An interrupter in which contact is broken by the movement of anautomatically vibrating hammer between a contact piece and anelectromagnet, or of a rapidly moving piece mechanically driven.
HAMMER LOCK
A hold in which an arm of one contestant is held twisted andbent behind his back by his opponent.
HAMMER-BEAM
A member of one description of roof truss, called hammer-beamtruss, which is so framed as not to have a tiebeam at the top of thewall. Each principal has two hammer-beams, which occupy thesituation, and to some extent serve the purpose, of a tiebeam.
HAMMER-DRESSED
Having the surface roughly shaped or faced with thestonecutter's hammer; -- said of building stone.
HAMMER-HARDEN
To harden, as a metal, by hammering it in the cold state.
HAMMER-LESS
Without a visible hammer; -- said of a gun having a cock orstriker concealed from sight, and out of the way of an accidentaltouch.
HAMMERABLE
Capable of being formed or shaped by a hammer. Sherwood.
HAMMERCLOTH
The cloth which covers a coach box.
HAMMERER
One who works with a hammer.
HAMMERHEAD
A shark of the genus Sphyrna or Zygรฆna, having the eyes set onprojections from the sides of the head, which gives it a hammershape. The Sphyrna zygรฆna is found in the North Atlantic. Called alsohammer fish, and balance fish.
HAMMERKOP
A bird of the Heron family; the umber.
HAMMERMAN
A hammerer; a forgeman.
HAMMOCHRYSOS
A stone with spangles of gold color in it.
HAMMOCK
Having the end hooked or curved.
HAMPER
A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing andcarrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; anoyster hamper, which contains two bushels.
HAMSHACKLE
To fasten (an animal) by a rope binding the head to one of thefore legs; as, to hamshackle a horse or cow; hence, to bind orrestrain; to curb.
HAMSTER
A small European rodent (Cricetus frumentarius). It isremarkable for having a pouch on each side of the jaw, under theskin, and for its migrations.
HAMSTRING
One of the great tendons situated in each side of the ham, orspace back of the knee, and connected with the muscles of the back ofthe thigh.
HAMULAR
Hooked; hooklike; hamate; as, the hamular process of thesphenoid bone.
HAMULATE
Furnished with a small hook; hook-shaped. Gray.
HAMULE
A little hook.
HAMULOSE
Bearing a small hook at the end. Gray.
HAMULUS
A hook, or hooklike process.
HAN
To have; have. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.Him thanken all, and thus they han an end. Chaucer.
HANAP
A rich goblet, esp. one used on state occasions. [Obs.]
HANAPER
A kind of basket, usually of wickerwork, and adapted for thepacking and carrying of articles; a hamper. Hanaper office, an officeof the English court of chancery in which writs relating to thebusiness of the public, and the returns to them, were anciently keptin a hanaper or hamper. Blackstone.
HANCE
To raise; to elevate. [Obs.] Lydgate.
HAND
The small part of a gunstock near the lock, which is grasped bythe hand in taking aim.
HAND-HOLE
A small hole in a boiler for the insertion of the hand incleaning, etc. Hand-hole plate, the cover of a hand-hole.
HAND-TIGHT
As tight as can be made by the hand. Totten.
HAND-WINGED
Having wings that are like hands in the structure andarrangement of their bones; -- said of bats. See Cheiroptera.
HANDBARROW
A frame or barrow, without a wheel, carried by hand.
HANDBOOK
A book of reference, to be carried in the hand; a manual; aguidebook.
HANDBREADTH
A space equal to the breadth of the hand; a palm. Ex. xxxvii.12.
HANDCART
A cart drawn or pushed by hand.
HANDCLOTH
A handkerchief.
HANDCRAFT
Same as Handicraft.
HANDCRAFTSMAN
A handicraftsman.
HANDCUFF
A fastening, consisting of an iron ring around the wrist,usually connected by a chain with one on the other wrist; a manacle;-- usually in the plural.
HANDER
One who hands over or transmits; a conveyer in succession.Dryden.
HANDFAST
Fast by contract; betrothed by joining hands. [Obs.] Bale.
HANDFASTLY
In a handfast or publicly pledged manner. [Obs.] Holinshed.
HANDFISH
The frogfish.
HANDICAP
To encumber with a handicap in any contest; hence, in general,to place at disadvantage; as, the candidate was heavily handicapped.
HANDICAPPER
One who determines the conditions of a handicap.
HANDICRAFTSMAN
A man skilled or employed in handcraft. Bacon.
HANDILY
In a handy manner; skillfully; conveniently.
HANDINESS
The quality or state of being handy.
HANDIRON
See Andrion. [Obs.]
HANDIWORK
Work done by the hands; hence, any work done personally.The firmament showeth his handiwork. Ps. xix. 1.
HANDKERCHER
A handkerchief. [Obs. or Colloq.] Chapman (1654). Shak.
HANDLE
To use the hands.They have hands, but they handle not. Ps. cxv. 7.
HANDLEABLE
Capable of being handled.
HANDLESS
Without a hand. Shak.
HANDLING
The mode of using the pencil or brush, etc.; style of touch.Fairholt.
HANDMADE
Manufactured by hand; as, handmade shoes.
HANDSAW
A saw used with one hand.
HANDSOME
To render handsome. [Obs.] Donne
HANDSOMELY
Carefully; in shipshape style.
HANDSOMENESS
The quality of being handsome.Handsomeness is the mere animal excellence, beauty the mereimaginative. Hare.
HANDSPIKE
A bar or lever, generally of wood, used in a windlass orcapstan, for heaving anchor, and, in modified forms, for variouspurposes.
HANDSPRING
A somersault made with the assistance of the hands placed uponthe ground.
HANDWHEEL
Any wheel worked by hand; esp., one the rim of which serves asthe handle by which a valve, car brake, or other part is adjusted.
HANDY
Easily managed; obedient to the helm; -- said of a vessel.
HANDY-DANDY
A child's play, one child guessing in which closed hand theother holds some small object, winning the object if right andforfeiting an equivalent if wrong; hence, forfeit. Piers Plowman.
HANDYFIGHT
A fight with the hands; boxing. "Pollux loves handyfights." B.Jonson.
HANDYGRIPE
Seizure by, or grasp of, the hand; also, close quarters infighting. Hudibras.
HANDYSTROKE
A blow with the hand.
HANDYWORK
See Handiwork.
HANG-BY
A dependent; a hanger-on; -- so called in contempt. B. Jonson.
HANGBIRD
The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula); -- so called becauseits nest is suspended from the limb of a tree. See Baltimore oriole.
HANGDOG
A base, degraded person; a sneak; a gallows bird.
HANGER-ON
One who hangs on, or sticks to, a person, place, or service; adependent; one who adheres to others' society longer than he iswanted. Goldsmith.
HANGMAN
One who hangs another; esp., one who makes a business ofhanging; a public executioner; -- sometimes used as a term ofreproach, without reference to office. Shak.
HANGMANSHIP
The office or character of a hangman.
HANGNAIL
A small piece or silver of skin which hangs loose, near theroot of finger nail. Holloway.
HANK
A ring or eye of rope, wood, or iron, attached to the edge of asail and running on a stay.
HANKERINGLY
In a hankering manner.
HANKEY-PANKEY
Professional cant; the chatter of conjurers to divert attentionfrom their tricks; hence, jugglery. [Colloq.]
HANOVERIAN
Of or pertaining to Hanover or its people, or to the House ofHanover in England.
HANSA
See 2d Hanse.
HANSARD
An official report of proceedings in the British Parliament; --so called from the name of the publishers.
HANSE
That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has theshorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost.
HANSEATIC
Pertaining to the Hanse towns, or to their confederacy.Hanseatic league. See under 2d Hanse.
HANSEL
See Handsel.
HANSELINES
A sort of breeches. [Obs..] Chaucer.
HANUMAN
See Hoonoomaun.
HAP
To clothe; to wrap.The surgeon happed her up carefully. Dr. J. Brown.
HAPHAZARD
Extra hazard; chance; accident; random.We take our principles at haphazard, upon trust. Locke.
HAPHTARAH
One of the lessons from the Nebiim (or Prophets) read in theJewish synagogue on Sabbaths, feast days, fasts, and the ninth of Ab,at the end of the service, after the parashoth, or lessons from theLaw. Such a practice is evidenced in Luke iv.17 and Acts xiii.15.
HAPLESS
Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy;as, hapless youth; hapless maid. Dryden.
HAPLESSLY
In a hapless, unlucky manner.
HAPLOMI
An order of freshwater fishes, including the true pikes,cyprinodonts, and blindfishes.
HAPLOSTEMONOUS
Having but one series of stamens, and that equal in number tothe proper number of petals; isostemonous.
HAPLY
By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be.Lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. Acts v. 39.
HAPPED
Wrapped; covered; cloaked. [Scot.]All happed with flowers in the green wood were. Hogg.
HAPUKU
A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus) of NewZealand. It sometimes weighs one hundred pounds or more.
HAQUEBUT
See Hagbut.
HARA-KIRI
Suicide, by slashing the abdomen, formerly practiced in Japan,and commanded by the government in the cases of disgraced officials;disembowelment; -- also written, but incorrectly, hari-kari. W. E.Griffis.
HARANGUE
A speech addressed to a large public assembly; a popularoration; a loud address a multitude; in a bad sense, a noisy orpompous speech; declamation; ranting.Gray-headed men and grave, with warriors mixed, Assemble, andharangues are heard. Milton.
HARANGUEFUL
Full of harangue.
HARANGUER
One who harangues, or is fond of haranguing; a declaimer.With them join'd all th' harangues of the throng, That thought to getpreferment by the tongue. Dryden.
HARASS
To fatigue; to tire with repeated and exhausting efforts; esp.,to weary by importunity, teasing, or fretting; to cause to endureexcessive burdens or anxieties; -- sometimes followed by out.[Troops] harassed with a long and wearisome march. Bacon.Nature oppressed and harass'd out with care. Addison.Vext with lawyers and harass'd with debt. Tennyson.
HARASSER
One who harasses.
HARASSMENT
The act of harassing, or state of being harassed; worry;annoyance; anxiety.Little harassments which I am led to suspect do occasionally molestthe most fortunate. Ld. Lytton.
HARBEROUS
Harborous. [Obs.]A bishop must be faultless, the husband of one wife, honestlyappareled, harberous. Tyndale (1 Tim. iii. 2)
HARBINGER
To usher in; to be a harbinger of. "Thus did the star ofreligious freedom harbinger the day." Bancroft.
HARBOR
The mansion of a heavenly body. [Obs.]
HARBOR MASTER
An officer charged with the duty of executing the regulationsrespecting the use of a harbor.
HARBORAGE
Shelter; entertainment.[R.]Where can I get me harborage for the night Tennyson.
HARBORER
One who, or that which, harbors.Geneva was . . . a harborer of exiles for religion. Strype.
HARBORLESS
Without a harbor; shelterless.
HARBOROUS
Hospitable. [Obs.]
HARD
To harden; to make hard. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HARD GRASS
A name given to several different grasses, especially to theRoltbรถllia incurvata, and to the species of รgilops, from one ofwhich it is contended that wheat has been derived.
HARD STEEL
Steel hardened by the addition of other elements, as manganese,phosphorus, or (usually) carbon.
HARD-FAVORED
Hard-featured; ill-looking; as, Vulcan was hard-favored.Dryden.
HARD-FAVOREDNESS
Coarseness of features.
HARD-FEATURED
Having coarse, unattractive or stern features. Smollett.
HARD-FOUGHT
contested; as, a hard-fought battle.
HARD-HANDED
Having hard hands, as a manual laborer.Hard-handed men that work in Athens here. Shak.
HARD-HEADED
Having sound judgment; sagacious; shrewd.-- Hard"-head`ed*ness, n.
HARD-HEARTED
Unsympathetic; inexorable; cruel; pitiless.-- Hard"-heart`ed*ness, n.
HARD-LABORED
Wrought with severe labor; elaborate; studied. Swift.
HARD-MOUTHED
Not sensible to the bit; not easily governed; as, a hard-mouthed horse.
HARD-SHELL
Unyielding; insensible to argument; uncompromising; strict.[Collog., U.S.]
HARD-TACK
A name given by soldiers and sailors to a kind of hard biscuitor sea bread.
HARD-VISAGED
Of a harsh or stern countenance; hard-featured. Burke.
HARDBAKE
A sweetmeat of boiled brown sugar or molasses made withalmonds, and flavored with orange or lemon juice, etc. Thackeray.
HARDBEAM
A tree of the genus Carpinus, of compact, horny texture;hornbeam.
HARDENED
Made hard, or compact; made unfeeling or callous; madeobstinate or obdurate; confirmed in error or vice.
HARDENER
One who, or that which, hardens; specif., one who temperstools.
HARDER
A South African mullet, salted for food.
HARDERIAN
A term applied to a lachrymal gland on the inner side of theorbit of many animals which have a third eyelid, or nictitatingmembrane. See Nictitating membrane, under Nictitate.
HARDFAVOREDNESS
Coarseness of features.
HARDFERN
A species of fern (Lomaria borealis), growing in Europe andNorthwestern America.
HARDHACK
A very astringent shrub (Spirรฆa tomentosa), common in pastures.The Potentilla fruticosa in also called by this name.
HARDIHEAD
Hardihood. [Obs.]
HARDIHOOD
Boldness, united with firmness and constancy of mind; bravery;intrepidity; also, audaciousness; impudence.A bound of graceful hardihood. Wordsworth.It is the society of numbers which gives hardihood to iniquity.Buckminster.
HARDIMENT
Hardihood; boldness; courage; energetic action. [Obs.]Changing hardiment with great Glendower. Shak.
HARDISH
Somewhat hard.
HARDNESS
The cohesion of the particles on the surface of a body,determined by its capacity to scratch another, or be itselfscratched;-measured among minerals on a scale of which diamond andtalc form the extremes.
HARDOCK
See Hordock.
HARDPAN
The hard substratum. Same as Hard pan, under Hard, a.
HARDS
The refuse or coarse part of fiax; tow.
HARDSHIP
That which is hard to hear, as toil, privation, injury,injustice, etc. Swift.
HARDSPUN
Firmly twisted in spinning.
HARDTAIL
See Jurel.
HARDWARE
Ware made of metal, as cutlery, kitchen utensils, and the like;ironmongery.
HARDWAREMAN
One who makes, or deals in, hardware.
HARDY
A blacksmith's fuller or chisel, having a square shank forinsertion into a square hole in an anvil, called the hardy hole.
HARE
To excite; to tease, or worry; to harry. [Obs.] Locke.
HARE-HEARTED
Timorous; timid; easily frightened. Ainsworth.
HAREBELL
A small, slender, branching plant (Campanula rotundifolia),having blue bell-shaped flowers; also, Scilla nutans, which hassimilar flowers; -- called also bluebell. [Written also hairbell.]E'en the light harebell raised its head. Sir W. Scott .
HAREFOOT
A long, narrow foot, carried (that is, produced or extending)forward; -- said of dogs.
HAREHOUND
See Harrier. A. Chalmers.
HARELD
The long-tailed duck. See Old Squaw.
HARELIP
A lip, commonly the upper one, having a fissure ofperpendicular division like that of a hare.-- Hare"lipped`, a.
HARENGIFORM
Herring-shaped.
HARFANG
The snowy owl.
HARIALI GRASS
The East Indian name of the Cynodon Dactylon; dog's-grass.
HARIER
See Harrier.
HARIKARI
See Hara-kiri.
HARIOLATION
Prognostication; soothsaying. [Obs.] Cockeram.
HARISH
Like a hare. [R.] Huloet.
HARK
To listen; to hearken. [Now rare, except in the imperative formused as an interjection, Hark! listen.] Hudibras. Hark away! Harkback! Hark forward! (Sporting), cries used to incite and guide houndsin hunting.-- To hark back, to go back for a fresh start, as when one haswandered from his direct course, or made a digression.He must have overshot the mark, and must hark back. Haggard. Heharked back to the subject. W. E. Norris.
HARKEN
To hearken. Tennyson.
HARLE
The red-breasted merganser.
HARLECH GROUP
A minor subdivision at the base of the Cambrian system inWales.
HARLEQUIN
A buffoon, dressed in party-colored clothes, who plays tricks,often without speaking, to divert the bystanders or an audience; amerry-andrew; originally, a droll rogue of Italian comedy. PercySmith.As dumb harlequin is exhibited in our theaters. Johnson.Harlequin bat (Zoรถl.), an Indian bat (Scotophilus ornatus), curiouslyvariegated with white spots.-- Harlequin beetle (Zoรถl.), a very large South American beetle(Acrocinus longimanus) having very long legs and antennรฆ. The elytraare curiously marked with red, black, and gray.-- Harlequin cabbage bug. (Zoรถl.) See Calicoback.-- Harlequin caterpillar. (Zoรถl.), the larva of an American bombycidmoth (Euchรฆtes egle) which is covered with black, white, yellow, andorange tufts of hair.-- Harlequin duck (Zoรถl.), a North American duck (Histrionicushistrionicus). The male is dark ash, curiously streaked with white.-- Harlequin moth. (Zoรถl.) See Magpie Moth.-- Harlequin opal. See Opal.-- Harlequin snake (Zoรถl.), a small, poisonous snake (Elapsfulvius), ringed with red and black, found in the Southern UnitedStates.
HARLEQUINADE
A play or part of play in which the harlequin is conspicuous;the part of a harlequin. Macaulay.
HARLOCK
Probably a corruption either of charlock or hardock. Drayton.
HARLOT
Wanton; lewd; low; base. Shak.
HARLOTIZE
To harlot. [Obs.] Warner.
HARM
To hurt; to injure; to damage; to wrong.Though yet he never harmed me. Shak.No ground of enmity between us known Why he should mean me ill orseek to harm. Milton.
HARMALINE
An alkaloid found in the plant Peganum harmala. It formsbitter, yellow salts.
HARMATTAN
A dry, hot wind, prevailing on the Atlantic coast of Africa, inDecember, January, and February, blowing from the interior or Sahara.It is usually accompanied by a haze which obscures the sun.
HARMEL
A kind of rue (Ruta sylvestris) growing in India. At Lahore theseeds are used medicinally and for fumigation.
HARMFUL
Full of harm; injurious; hurtful; mischievous. " Most harmfulhazards." Strype. --Harm"ful*ly, adv.-- Harm"ful*ness, n.
HARMINE
An alkaloid accompanying harmaline (in the Peganum harmala),and obtained from it by oxidation. It is a white crystallinesubstance.
HARMLESS
Relating to harmony, -- as melodic relates to melody;harmonious; esp., relating to the accessory sounds or overtones whichaccompany the predominant and apparent single tone of any string orsonorous body.
HARMONIC
A musical note produced by a number of vibrations which is amultiple of the number producing some other; an overtone. SeeHarmonics.
HARMONICALLY
In harmonical progression.
HARMONICON
A small, flat, wind instrument of music, in which the notes areproduced by the vibration of free metallic reeds.
HARMONICS
Secondary and less distinct tones which accompany anyprincipal, and apparently simple, tone, as the octave, the twelfth,the fifteenth, and the seventeenth. The name is also applied to theartificial tones produced by a string or column of air, when theimpulse given to it suffices only to make a part of the string orcolumn vibrate; overtones.
HARMONIPHON
An obsolete wind instrument with a keyboard, in which thesound, which resembled the oboe, was produced by the vibration ofthin metallic plates, acted upon by blowing through a tube.
HARMONIST
One who understands the principles of harmony or is skillful inapplying them in composition; a musical composer.
HARMONIUM
A musical instrument, resembling a small organ and especiallydesigned for church music, in which the tones are produced by forcingair by means of a bellows so as to cause the vibration of freemetallic reeds. It is now made with one or two keyboards, and haspedals and stops.
HARMONIZATION
The act of harmonizing.
HARMONIZE
To accompany with harmony; to provide with parts, as an air, ormelody.
HARMONIZER
One who harmonizes.
HARMONOMETER
An instrument for measuring the harmonic relations of sounds.It is often a monochord furnished with movable bridges.
HARMONY
See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic. Close harmony, Dispersedharmony, etc. See under Close, Dispersed, etc.-- Harmony of the spheres. See Music of the spheres, under Music.
HARMOST
A governor or prefect appointed by the Spartans in the citiessubjugated by them.
HARMOTOME
A hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta, occurring usually inwhite cruciform crystals; cross-stone.
HARNESS CASK
A tub lashed to a vessel's deck and containing saltedprovisions for daily use; -- called also harness tub. W. C. Russell.
HARNESSER
One who harnesses.
HARNS
The brains. [Scot.]
HARP
A constellation; Lyra, or the Lyre.
HARPA
A genus of marine univalve shells; the harp shells; -- socalled from the form of the shells, and their ornamental ribs.
HARPAGON
A grappling iron. [Obs.]
HARPING
Pertaining to the harp; as, harping symphonies. Milton.
HARPING IRON
A harpoon. Evelyn.
HARPINGS
The fore parts of the wales, which encompass the bow of avessel, and are fastened to the stem. [Written also harpins.] Totten.
HARPIST
A player on the harp; a harper. W. Browne.
HARPOON
A spear or javelin used to strike and kill large fish, aswhales; a harping iron. It consists of a long shank, with a broad,fiat, triangular head, sharpened at both edges, and is thrown byhand, or discharged from a gun. Harpoon fork, a kind of hayfork,consisting of bar with hinged barbs at one end a loop for a rope atthe other end, used for lifting hay from the load by horse power.-- Harpoon gun, a gun used in the whale fishery for shooting theharpoon into a whale.
HARPOONEER
An harpooner. Grabb.
HARPOONER
One who throws the harpoon.
HARPRESS
A female harper. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
HARPSICHON
A harpsichord. [Obs.]
HARPSICHORD
A harp-shaped instrument of music set horizontally on legs,like the grand piano, with strings of wire, played by the fingers, bymeans of keys provided with quills, instead of hammers, for strikingthe strings. It is now superseded by the piano.
HARPY
A fabulous winged monster, ravenous and filthy, having the faceof a woman and the body of a vulture, with long claws, and the facepale with hunger. Some writers mention two, others three.Both table and provisions vanished guite. With sound of harpies'wings and talons heard. Milton.
HARRAGE
To harass; to plunder from. [Obs.] Fuller.
HARRE
A hinge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HARRIDAN
A worn-out strumpet; a vixenish woman; a hag.Such a weak, watery, wicked old harridan, substituted for the prettycreature I had been used to see. De Quincey.
HARRIER
One of a small breed of hounds, used for hunting hares.[Written also harier.]
HARROW
An obstacle formed by turning an ordinary harrow upside down,the frame being buried. Bush harrow, a kind of light harrow made ofbushes, for harrowing grass lands and covering seeds, or to finishthe work of a toothed harrow.-- Drill harrow. See under 6th Drill.-- Under the harrow, subjected to actual torture with a toothedinstrument, or to great affliction or oppression.
HARROWER
One who harrows.
HARRY
To make a predatory incursion; to plunder or lay waste. [Obs.]Beau. & Fl.
HARSH
Having violent contrasts of color, or of light and shade;lacking in harmony.
HARSHLY
In a harsh manner; gratingly; roughly; rudely.'T will sound harshly in her ears. Shak.
HARSHNESS
The quality or state of being harsh.O, she is Ten times more gentle than her father 's crabbed, And he'scomposed of harshness. Shak.'Tis not enough no harshness gives offense, The sound must seem anecho to the sense. Pope.
HARSLET
See Haslet.
HART
A stag; the male of the red deer. See the Note under Buck.Goodliest of all the forest, hart and hind. Milton.
HARTBEEST
A large South African antelope (Alcelaphus caama), formerlymuch more abundant than it is now. The face and legs are marked withblack, the rump with white. [Written also hartebeest, and hartebest.]
HARTEN
To hearten; to encourage; to incite. [Obs.] Spenser.
HARTFORD
The Hartford grape, a variety of grape first raised atHartford, Connecticut, from the Northern fox grape. Its large dark-colored berries ripen earlier than those of most other kinds.
HARTWORT
A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Tordylium maximum).
HARUM-SCARUM
Wild; giddy; flighty; rash; thoughtless. [Colloq.]They had a quarrel with Sir Thomas Newcome's own son, a harum-scarumlad. Thackeray.
HARUSPICATION
See Haruspicy. Tylor.
HARUSPICE
A diviner of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspice.
HARUSPICY
The art or practices of haruspices. See Aruspicy.
HARVEST
To reap or gather, as any crop.
HARVESTER
A harvesting ant.
HARVESTING
, from Harvest, v. t. Harvesting ant (Zoรถl.), any species ofant which gathers and stores up seeds for food. Many species areknown.
HARVESTLESS
Without harvest; lacking in crops; barren. "Harvestlessautumns." Tennyson.
HARVESTMAN
See Daddy longlegs, 1.
HARVESTRY
The act of harvesting; also, that which is harvested.Swinburne.
HARVEY PROCESS
A process of hardening the face of steel, as armor plates,invented by Hayward A. Harvey of New Jersey, consisting in theadditional carburizing of the face of a piece of low carbon steel bysubjecting it to the action of carbon under long-continued pressureat a very high heat, and then to a violent chilling, as by a spray ofcold water. This process gives an armor plate a thick surface ofextreme hardness supported by material gradually decreasing inhardness to the unaltered soft steel at the back.
HARY
To draw; to drag; to carry off by vio [Obs.] Chaucer.
HAS
3d pers. sing. pres. of Have.
HASARD
Hazard. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HASE
See Haze, v. t.
HASH
To as, to hash meat. Hudibras.
HASK
A basket made of rushes or flags, as for carrying fish. [Obs.]Spenser.
HASLET
The edible viscera, as the heart, liver, etc., of a beast, esp.of a hog. [Written also harslet.]
HASP
To shut or fasten with a hasp.
HAST
, 2d pers. sing. pres. of. Fave, contr. of havest. [Archaic]
HASTE
To hasten; to hurry. [Archaic]I 'll haste the writer. Shak.They were troubled and hasted away. Ps. xlviii. 5.
HASTEN
To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate;to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry.I would hasten my escape from the windy storm. Ps. lv. 8.
HASTIF
Hasty. [Obs.] Chaucer.-- Has"tif*ly, adv. [Obs.]
HASTILE
Same as Hastate. Gray.
HASTINESS
The quality or state of being hasty; haste; precipitation;rashness; quickness of temper.
HASTINGS
Early fruit or vegetables; especially, early pease. Mortimer.
HASTINGS SANDS
The lower group of the Wealden formation; -- so called from itsdevelopment around Hastings, in Sussex, England.
HASTIVE
Forward; early; -- said of fruits. [Obs.]
HASTY
Proceeding from, or indicating, a quick temper.Take no unkindness of his hasty words. Shak
HAT
Hot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HATABLE
Capable of being, or deserving to be, hated; odious;detestable.
HATBAND
A band round the crown of a hat; sometimes, a band of blackcloth, crape, etc., worn as a badge of mourning.
HATBOX
A box for a hat.
HATCH
To produce young; -- said of eggs; to come forth from the egg;-- said of the young of birds, fishes, insects, etc.
HATCH-BOAT
A vessel whose deck consists almost wholly of movable hatches;-- used mostly in the fisheries.
HATCHEL
An instrument with long iron teeth set in a board, forcleansing flax or hemp from the tow, hards, or coarse part; a kind oflarge comb; -- called also hackle and heckle.
HATCHELER
One who uses a hatchel.
HATCHERY
A house for hatching fish, etc.
HATCHET MAN
1. A person hired to murder or physically attack another; a hitman.
HATCHING
A mode of execution in engraving, drawing, and miniaturepainting, in which shading is produced by lines crossing each otherat angles more or less acute; -- called also crosshatching.
HATCHMENT
A sort of panel, upon which the arms of a deceased person aretemporarily displayed, -- usually on the walls of his dwelling. It islozenge-shaped or square, but is hung cornerwise. It is used inEngland as a means of giving public notification of the death of thedeceased, his or her rank, whether married, widower, widow, etc.Called also achievement.His obscure funeral; No trophy, sword, or hatchment o'er his bones.Shak.
HATCHURE
Same as Hachure.
HATCHWAY
A square or oblong opening in a deck or floor, affordingpassage from one deck or story to another; the entrance to a cellar.
HATE
To love less, relatively. Luke xiv. 26.
HATEL
Hateful; detestable. [Obs.]
HATER
One who hates.An enemy to God, and a hater of all good. Sir T. Browne.
HATH
Has. [Archaic.]
HATLESS
Having no hat.
HATRACK
A hatstand; hattree.
HATRED
Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of themind awakened by something regarded as evil.
HATSTAND
A stand of wood or iron, with hooks or pegs upon which to hanghats, etc.
HATTE
pres. & imp. sing. & pl. of Hote, to be called. See Hote.[Obs.] Chaucer.A full perilous place, purgatory it hatte. Piers Plowman.
HATTED
Covered with a hat.
HATTER
To tire or worry; -- out. [Obs.] Dryden.
HATTERIA
A New Zealand lizard, which, in anatomical character, differswidely from all other existing lizards. It is the only livingrepresentative of the order Rhynchocephala, of which many Mesozoicfossil species are known; -- called also Sphenodon, and Tuatera.
HATTI-SHERIF
A irrevocable Turkish decree countersigned by the sultan.
HATTING
The business of making hats; also, stuff for hats.
HATTREE
A hatstand.
HAUBERGEON
See Habergeon.
HAUBERK
A coat of mail; especially, the long coat of mail of theEuropean Middle Ages, as contrasted with the habergeon, which isshorter and sometimes sleeveless. By old writers it is often usedsynonymously with habergeon. See Habergeon. [Written variouslyhauberg, hauberque, hawberk, etc.] Chaucer.Helm, nor hawberk's twisted mail. Gray.
HAUERITE
Native sulphide of manganese a reddish brown or brownish blackmineral.
HAUGH
A low-lying meadow by the side of a river. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]On a haugh or level plain, near to a royal borough. Sir W. Scott.
HAUGHT
High; elevated; hence, haughty; proud. [Obs.] Shak.
HAUGHTILY
In a haughty manner; arrogantly.
HAUGHTINESS
The quality of being haughty; disdain; arrogance.
HAUL
To change the direction of a ship by hauling the wind. Seeunder Haul, v. t.I . . . hauled up for it, and found it to be an island. Cook.
HAULABOUT
A bargelike vessel with steel hull, large hatchways, and coaltransporters, for coaling war vessels from its own hold or from othercolliers.
HAULAGE
Act of hauling; as, the haulage of cars by an engine; chargefor hauling.
HAULER
One who hauls.
HAULM
The denuded stems or stalks of such crops as buckwheat and thecereal grains, beans, etc.; straw.
HAULS
See Hals.
HAULSE
See Halse.
HAULT
Lofty; haughty. [Obs.]Through support of countenance proud and hault. Spenser.
HAUM
See Haulm, stalk. Smart.
HAUNCE
To enhance. [Obs.] Lydgate.
HAUNCHED
Having haunches.
HAUNT
To persist in staying or visiting.I've charged thee not to haunt about my doors. Shak.
HAUNTED
Inhabited by, or subject to the visits of, apparitions;frequented by a ghost.All houses wherein men have lived and died Are haunted houses.Longfellow.
HAUNTER
One who, or that which, haunts.
HAURIENT
In pale, with the head in chief; -- said of the figure of afish, as if rising for air.
HAUSEN
A large sturgeon (Acipenser huso) from the region of the BlackSea. It is sometimes twelve feet long.
HAUSSE
A kind of graduated breech sight for a small arm, or a cannon.
HAUSTELLATA
An artificial division of insects, including all those with asucking proboscis.
HAUSTELLATE
Provided with a haustellum, or sucking proboscis.-- n.
HAUSTELLUM
The sucking proboscis of various insects. See Lepidoptera, andDiptera.
HAUSTORIUM
One of the suckerlike rootlets of such plants as the dodder andivy. R. Brown.
HAUT
Haughty. [Obs.] "Nations proud and haut." Milton.
HAUTBOY
A wind instrument, sounded through a reed, and similar in shapeto the clarinet, but with a thinner tone. Now more commonly calledoboe. See Illust. of Oboe.
HAUTBOYIST
A player on the hautboy.
HAUTEUR
Haughty manner or spirit; haughtiness; pride; arrogance.
HAUTGOUT
High relish or flavor; high seasoning.
HAUTPAS
A raised part of the floor of a large room; a platform for araised table or throne. See Dais.
HAUYNITE
A blue isometric mineral, characteristic of some volcani
HAVANA
Of or pertaining to Havana, the capital of the island of Cuba;as, an Havana cigar; -- formerly sometimes written Havannah.-- n.
HAVANESE
Of or pertaining to Havana, in Cuba.-- n. sing. & pl.
HAVELESS
Having little or nothing. [Obs.] Gower.
HAVELOCK
A light cloth covering for the head and neck, used by soldiersas a protection from sunstroke.
HAVEN
To shelter, as in a haven. Keats.
HAVENAGE
Harbor dues; port dues.
HAVENED
Sheltered in a haven.Blissful havened both from joy and pain. Keats.
HAVENER
A harbor master. [Obs.]
HAVER
A possessor; a holder. Shak.
HAVERSIAN
Pertaining to, or discovered by, Clopton Havers, an Englishphysician of the seventeenth century. Haversian canals (Anat.), thesmall canals through which the blood vessels ramify in bone.
HAVIER
A castrated deer.
HAVILDAR
In the British Indian armies, a noncommissioned officer ofnative soldiers, corresponding to a sergeant. Havildar major, anative sergeant major in the East Indian army.
HAVING
Possession; goods; estate.I 'll lend you something; my having is not much. Shak.
HAVIOR
Behavior; demeanor. [Obs.] Shak.
HAVOC
Wide and general destruction; devastation; waste.As for Saul, he made havoc of the church. Acts viii. 3.Ye gods, what havoc does ambition make Among your works! Addison.
HAW
The third eyelid, or nictitating membrane. See Nictitatingmembrane, under Nictitate.
HAW-HAW
See Ha-ha.
HAWAIIAN
Belonging to Hawaii or the Sandwich Islands, or to the peopleof Hawaii.-- n.
HAWEBAKE
Probably, the baked berry of the hawthorn tree, that is, coarsefare. See 1st Haw, 2. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HAWFINCH
The common European grosbeak (Coccothraustes vulgaris); --called also cherry finch, and coble.
HAWHAW
To laugh boisterously. [Colloq. U. S.]We haw-haw'd, I tell you, for more than half an hour. Major JackDowning.
HAWK
One of numerous species and genera of rapacious birds of thefamily Falconidรฆ. They differ from the true falcons in lacking theprominent tooth and notch of the bill, and in having shorter and lesspointed wings. Many are of large size and grade into the eagles.Some, as the goshawk, were formerly trained like falcons. In a moregeneral sense the word is not infrequently applied, also, to truefalcons, as the sparrow hawk, pigeon hawk, duck hawk, and prairiehawk.
HAWK MOTH
Any moth of the family Sphingidรฆ, of which there are numerousgenera and species. They are large, handsome moths, which fly mostlyat twilight and hover about flowers like a humming bird, sucking thehoney by means of a long, slender proboscis. The larvรฆ are large,hairless caterpillars ornamented with green and other bright colors,and often with a caudal spine. See Sphinx, also Tobacco worm, andTomato worm. Tobacco Hawk Moth (Macrosila Carolina), and its Larva,the Tobacco Worm.
HAWK-EYED
Having a keen eye; sharpsighted; discerning.
HAWKBILL
A sea turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata), which yields the bestquality of tortoise shell; -- called also caret.
HAWKBIT
The fall dandelion (Leontodon autumnale).
HAWKED
Curved like a hawk's bill; crooked.
HAWKER
One who sells wares by crying them in the street; hence, apeddler or a packman.
HAWKEY
See Hockey. Holloway.
HAWKEYE STATE
Iowa; -- a nickname of obscure origin.
HAWM
See Haulm, straw.
HAWSER
A large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns.
HAWSER-LAID
Made in the manner of a hawser. Cf. Cable-laid, and see Illust.of Cordage.
HAWTHORN
A thorny shrub or tree (the Cratรฆgus oxyacantha), having deeplylobed, shining leaves, small, roselike, fragrant flowers, and a fruitcalled haw. It is much used in Europe for hedges, and for standardsin gardens. The American hawthorn is Cratรฆgus cordata, which has theleaves but little lobed.Gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade To shepherds Shak.
HAY
To lay snares for rabbits. Huloet.
HAY-CUTTER
A machine in which hay is chopped short, as fodder for cattle.
HAYBOTE
An allowance of wood to a tenant for repairing his hedges orfences; hedgebote. See Bote. Blackstone.
HAYCOCK
A conical pile or hear of hay in the field.The tanned haycock in the mead. Milton.
HAYFIELD
A field where grass for hay has been cut; a meadow. Cowper.
HAYFORK
A fork for pitching and tedding hay. Horse hayfork, acontrivance for unloading hay from the cart and depositing it in theloft, or on a mow, by horse power.
HAYLOFT
A loft or scaffold for hay.
HAYMAKING
The operation or work of cutting grass and curing it for hay.
HAYRACK
A frame mounted on the running gear of a wagon, and used inhauling hay, straw, sheaves, etc.; -- called also hay rigging.
HAYRAKE
A rake for collecting hay; especially, a large rake drawn by ahorse or horses.
HAYRICK
A heap or pile of hay, usually covered with thatch forpreservation in the open air.
HAYSTACK
A stack or conical pile of hay in the open air.
HAYSTALK
A stalk of hay.
HAYTHORN
Hawthorn. R. Scot.
HAYTIAN
Of pertaining to Hayti.-- n.
HAYWARD
An officer who is appointed to guard hedges, and to keep cattlefrom breaking or cropping them, and whose further duty it is toimpound animals found running at large.
HAZARD
Holing a ball, whether the object ball (winning hazard) or theplayer's ball (losing hazard).
HAZARDIZE
A hazardous attempt or situation; hazard. [Obs.]Herself had run into that hazardize. Spenser.
HAZARDOUS
Exposed to hazard; dangerous; risky.To enterprise so hazardous and high! Milton.
HAZE
Light vapor or smoke in the air which more or less impedesvision, with little or no dampness; a lack of transparency in theair; hence, figuratively, obscurity; dimness.O'er the sky The silvery haze of summer drawn. Tennyson.Above the world's uncertain haze. Keble.
HAZEL
A shrub or small tree of the genus Corylus, as the C. avellana,bearing a nut containing a kernel of a mild, farinaceous taste; thefilbert. The American species are C. Americana, which produces thecommon hazelnut, and C. rostrata. See Filbert. Gray.
HAZELESS
Destitute of haze. Tyndall.
HAZELLY
Of the color of the hazelnut; of a light brown. Mortimer.
HAZELNUT
The nut of the hazel. Shak.
HAZELWORT
The asarabacca.
HAZILY
In a hazy manner; mistily; obscurely; confusedly.
HAZINESS
The quality or state of being hazy.
HAZLE
To make dry; to dry. [Obs.]
HEAD
Tiles laid at the eaves of a house. Knight.
HEAD-CHEESE
A dish made of portions of the head, or head and feet, ofswine, cut up fine, seasoned, and pressed into a cheeselike mass.
HEAD-HUNTER
A member of any tribe or race of savages who have the custom ofdecapitating human beings and preserving their heads as trophies. TheDyaks of Borneo are the most noted head-hunters.-- Head"-hunt`ing, n.
HEAD-LUGGED
Lugged or dragged by the head. [R.] "The head-lugged bear."Shak.
HEADACHE
Pain in the head; ceph "Headaches and shivering fits."Macaulay.
HEADACHY
Afflicted with headache. [Colloq.]
HEADBOARD
A board or boarding which marks or forms the head of anything;as, the headboard of a bed; the headboard of a grave.
HEADER
With the head foremost.
HEADFISH
The sunfish (Mola).
HEADILY
In a heady or rash manner; hastily; rashly; obstinately.
HEADINESS
The quality of being heady.
HEADING
A gallery, drift, or adit in a mine; also, the end of a driftor gallery; the vein above a drift.
HEADLIGHT
A light, with a powerful reflector, placed at the head of alocomotive, or in front of it, to throw light on the track at night,or in going through a dark tunnel.
HEADLINE
The line at the head or top of a page.
HEADMAN
A head or leading man, especially of a village community.
HEADMOST
Most advanced; most forward; as, the headmost ship in a fleet.
HEADNOTE
A note at the head of a page or chapter; in law reports, anabstract of a case, showing the principles involved and the opinionof the court.
HEADPAN
The brainpan. [Obs.]
HEADQUARTERS
The quarters or place of residence of any chief officer, as thegeneral in command of an army, or the head of a police force; theplace from which orders or instructions are issued; hence, the centerof authority or order.The brain, which is the headquarters, or office, of intelligence.Collier.
HEADRACE
See Race, a water course.
HEADROOM
See Headway, 2.
HEADROPE
That part of a boltrope which is sewed to the upper edge orhead of a sail.
HEADSAIL
Any sail set forward of the foremast. Totten.
HEADSHAKE
A significant shake of the head, commonly as a signal ofdenial. Shak.
HEADSHIP
Authority or dignity; chief place.
HEADSMAN
An executioner who cuts off heads. Dryden.
HEADSPRING
Fountain; source.The headspring of our belief. Stapleton.
HEADSTALL
That part of a bridle or halter which encompasses the head.Shak.
HEADSTOCK
A part (usually separate from the bed or frame) for supportingsome of the principal working parts of a machine; as:(a) The part of a lathe that holds the revolving spindle and itsattachments; -- also called poppet head, the opposite correspondingpart being called a tailstock.(b) The part of a planing machine that supports the cutter, etc.
HEADSTRONGNESS
Obstinacy. [R.] Gayton.
HEADWATER
The source and upper part of a stream; -- commonly used in theplural; as, the headwaters of the Missouri.
HEADWAY
Clear space under an arch, girder, and the like, sufficient toallow of easy passing underneath.
HEADWORK
Mental labor.
HEAL
To cover, as a roof, with tiles, slate, lead, or the like.[Obs.]
HEALABLE
Capable of being healed.
HEALALL
A common herb of the Mint family (Brunela vulgaris), destituteof active properties, but anciently thought a panacea.
HEALD
A heddle. Ure.
HEALER
One who, or that which, heals.
HEALFUL
Tending or serving to heal; healing. [Obs.] Ecclus. xv. 3.
HEALING
Tending to cure; soothing; mollifying; as, the healing art; ahealing salve; healing words.Here healing dews and balms abound. Keble.
HEALINGLY
So as to heal or cure.
HEALTHFULLY
In health; wholesomely.
HEALTHFULNESS
The state of being healthful.
HEALTHILY
In a healthy manner.
HEALTHINESS
The state of being healthy or healthful; freedom from disease.
HEALTHLESSNESS
The state of being health
HEALTHSOME
Wholesome; salubrious. [R.] "Healthsome air." Shak.
HEALTHWARD
In the direction of health; as, a healthward tendency.
HEAM
The afterbirth or secundines of a beast.
HEAPER
One who heaps, piles, or amasses.
HEAPY
Lying in heaps. Gay.
HEARD
imp. & p. p. of Hear.
HEARER
One who hears; an auditor.
HEARKENER
One who hearkens; a listener.
HEARSAL
Rehearsal. [Obs.] Spenser.
HEARSAY
Report; rumor; fame; common talk; something heard from another.Much of the obloquy that has so long rested on the memory of ourgreat national poet originated in frivolous hearsays of his life andconversation. Prof. Wilson.Hearsay evidence (Law), that species of testimony which consists in aa narration by one person of matters told him by another. It is, witha few exceptions, inadmissible as testimony. Abbott.
HEARSE
A hind in the year of its age. [Eng.] Wright.
HEARSECLOTH
A cloth for covering a coffin when on a bier; a pall. Bp.Sanderson.
HEARSELIKE
Suitable to a funeral.If you listen to David's harp, you shall hear as many hearselike airsas carols. Bacon.
HEART
A hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically,keeps up the circulation of the blood.Why does my blood thus muster to my heart! Shak.
HEART-EATING
Preying on the heart.
HEART-ROBBING
A species of violet (Viola tricolor); -- called also pansy.
HEART-SPOON
A part of the breastbone. [Obs.]He feeleth through the herte-spon the pricke. Chaucer.
HEART-WOUNDED
Wounded to the heart with love or grief. Pope.
HEARTACHE
Sorrow; anguish of mind; mental pang. Shak.
HEARTBREAK
Crushing sorrow or grief; a yielding to such grief. Shak.
HEARTBREAKING
Causing overpowering sorrow.
HEARTBROKEN
Overcome by crushing sorrow; deeply grieved.
HEARTBURN
An uneasy, burning sensation in the stomach, often attendedwith an inclination to vomit. It is sometimes idiopathic, but isoften a symptom of often complaints.
HEARTBURNED
Having heartburn. Shak.
HEARTBURNING
Causing discontent.
HEARTDEAR
Sincerely beloved. [R.] Shak.
HEARTDEEP
Rooted in the heart. Herbert.
HEARTEDNESS
Earnestness; sincerity; heartiness. [R.] Clarendon.
HEARTENER
One who, or that which, heartens, animates, or stirs up. W.Browne.
HEARTFELT
Hearty; sincere.
HEARTGRIEF
Heartache; sorrow. Milton.
HEARTH
The floor of a furnace, on which the material to be heatedlies, or the lowest part of a melting furnace, into which the meltedmaterial settles. Hearth ends (Metal.), fragments of lead ore ejectedfrom the furnace by the blast.-- Hearth money, Hearth penny Etym: [AS. heoredhpening], a taxformerly laid in England on hearths, each hearth (in all housespaying the church and poor rates) being taxed at two shillings; --called also chimney money, etc.He had been importuned by the common people to relieve them from the. . . burden of the hearth money. Macaulay.
HEARTHSTONE
Stone forming the hearth; hence, the fireside; home.Chords of memory, stretching from every battlefield and patriot graveto every living heart and hearthstone. A. Lincoln.
HEARTINESS
The quality of being hearty; as, the heartiness of a greeting.
HEARTLET
A little heart.
HEARTLINGS
An exclamation used in addressing a familiar acquaintance.[Obs.] Shak.
HEARTPEA
Same as Heartseed.
HEARTQUAKE
Trembling of the heart; trepidation; fear.In many an hour of danger and heartquake. Hawthorne.
HEARTRENDING
Causing intense grief; overpowering with anguish; verydistressing.
HEARTSEED
A climbing plant of the genus Cardiospermum, having round seedswhich are marked with a spot like a heart. Loudon.
HEARTSHAPED
Having the shape of a heart; cordate.
HEARTSICK
Sick at heart; extremely depressed in spirits; very despondent.
HEARTSOME
Merry; cheerful; lively. [Scot.]
HEARTSTRICKEN
Shocked; dismayed.
HEARTSTRIKE
To affect at heart; to shock. [R.] "The seek to heartstrikeus." B. Jonson.
HEARTSTRING
A nerve or tendon, supposed to brace and sustain the heart.Shak.Sobbing, as if a hearstring broke. Moore.
HEARTSWELLING
Rankling in, or swelling, the heart. "Heartswelling hate."Spenser.
HEARTWOOD
The hard, central part of the trunk of a tree, consisting ofthe old and matured wood, and usually differing in color from theouter layers. It is technically known as duramen, and distinguishedfrom the softer sapwood or alburnum.
HEARTY
Comrade; boon companion; good fellow; -- a term of familiaraddress and fellowship among sailors. Dickens.
HEARTYHALE
Good for the heart. [Obs.]
HEAT
Heated; as, the iron though heat red-hot. [Obs. or Archaic.]Shak.
HEATHCLAD
Clad or crowned with heath.
HEATHENESSE
Heathendom. [Obs.] Chaucer. Sir W. Scott.
HEATHENISHLY
In a heathenish manner.
HEATHENISHNESS
The state or quality of being heathenish. "The . . .heathenishness and profaneness of most playbooks." Prynne.
HEATHENIZE
To render heathen or heathenish. Firmin.
HEATHENNESS
State of being heathen or like the heathen.
HEATHER
Heath. [Scot.]Gorse and grass And heather, where his footsteps pass, The brighterseem. Longfellow.Heather bell (Bot.), one of the pretty subglobose flowers of twoEuropean kinds of heather (Erica Tetralix, and E. cinerea).
HEATHERY
Heathy; abounding in heather; of the nature of heath.
HEATHY
Full of heath; abounding with heath; as, heathy land; heathyhills. Sir W. Scott.
HEATING
That heats or imparts heat; promoting warmth or heat; excitingaction; stimulating; as, heating medicines or applications. Heatingsurface (Steam Boilers), the aggregate surface exposed to fire or tothe heated products of combustion, esp. of all the plates or sheetsthat are exposed to water on their opposite surfaces; -- called alsofire surface.
HEATINGLY
In a heating manner; so as to make or become hot or heated.
HEATLESS
Destitute of heat; cold. Beau. & Fl.
HEAVE
A horizontal dislocation in a metallic lode, taking place at anintersection with another lode.
HEAVE OFFERING
An offering or oblation heaved up or elevated before the altar,as the shoulder of the peace offering. See Wave offering. Ex. xxix.27.
HEAVEN
To place in happiness or bliss, as if in heaven; to beatify.[R.]We are happy as the bird whose nest Is heavened in the hush of purplehills. G. Massey.
HEAVENIZE
To render like heaven or fit for heaven. [R.] Bp. Hall.
HEAVENLINESS
The state or quality of being heavenly. Sir J. Davies.
HEAVENLY
Having the thoughts and affections placed on, or suitable for,heaven and heavenly objects; devout; godly; pious. Milner.-- Heav"en*ly*mind`ed*ness, n.
HEAVENWARD
Toward heaven.
HEAVER
A bar used as a lever. Totten.
HEAVES
A disease of horses, characterized by difficult breathing, withheaving of the flank, wheezing, flatulency, and a peculiar cough;broken wind.
HEAVILY
subject to much traffic or travel; as, the region's mostheavily traveled highways.Syn. -- heavily traveled.[WordNet 1.5]
HEAVINESS
The state or quality of being heavy in its various senses;weight; sadness; sluggishness; oppression; thickness.
HEAVING
A lifting or rising; a swell; a panting or deep sighing.Addison. Shak.
HEAVISOME
Heavy; dull. [Prov.]
HEAVY
Having the heaves.
HEAVY SPAR
Native barium sulphate or barite, -- so called because of itshigh specific gravity as compared with other non-metallic minerals.
HEAVY-ARMED
Wearing heavy or complete armor; carrying heavy arms.
HEAVY-HADED
Clumsy; awkward.
HEAVY-HEADED
Dull; stupid. "Gross heavy-headed fellows." Beau. & Fl.
HEBDOMAD
A week; a period of seven days. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
HEBDOMADALLY
In periods of seven days; weekly. Lowell.
HEBDOMADARY
A member of a chapter or convent, whose week it is to officiatein the choir, and perform other services, which, on extraordinaryoccasions, are performed by the superiors.
HEBDOMATICAL
Weekly; hebdomadal. [Obs.]
HEBE
The goddess of youth, daughter of Jupiter and Juno. She wasbelieved to have the power of restoring youth and beauty to those whohad lost them.
HEBEN
Ebony. [Obs.] Spenser.
HEBENON
See Henbane. [Obs.] Shak.
HEBETATE
To render obtuse; to dull; to blunt; to stupefy; as, tohebetate the intellectual faculties. Southey
HEBETE
Dull; stupid. [Obs.]
HEBETUDE
Dullness; stupidity. Harvey.
HEBRAIC
Of or pertaining to the Hebrews, or to the language of theHebrews.
HEBRAICALLY
After the manner of the Hebrews or of the Hebrew language.
HEBRAIST
One versed in the Hebrew language and learning.
HEBRAISTIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, the Hebrew language or idiom.
HEBRAISTICALLY
In a Hebraistic sense or form.Which is Hebraistically used in the New Testament. Kitto.
HEBRAIZE
To convert into the Hebrew idiom; to make Hebrew or Hebraistic.J. R. Smith.
HEBREW
Of or pertaining to the Hebrews; as, the Hebrew language orrites.
HEBREW CALENDAR
= Jewish calendar.
HEBREWESS
An Israelitish woman.
HEBRICIAN
A Hebraist. [R.]
HECATOMB
A sacrifice of a hundred oxen or cattle at the same time;hence, the sacrifice or slaughter of any large number of victims.Slaughtered hecatombs around them bleed. Addison.More than a human hecatomb. Byron.
HECATOMPEDON
A name given to the old Parthenon at Athens, because measuring100 Greek feet, probably in the width across the stylobate.
HECDECANE
A white, semisolid, spermaceti-like hydrocarbon, C16H34, of theparaffin series, found dissolved as an important ingredient ofkerosene, and so called because each molecule has sixteen atoms ofcarbon; -- called also hexadecane.
HECK
An apparatus for separating the threads of warps into sets, asthey are wound upon the reel from the bobbins, in a warping machine.
HECKIMAL
The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus). [Written alsoheckimel, hackeymal, hackmall, hagmall, and hickmall.]
HECKLE
Same as Hackle.
HECTARE
A measure of area, or superficies, containing a hundred ares,or 10,000 square meters, and equivalent to 2.471 acres.
HECTIC
Hectic fever.
HECTOCOTYLIZED
Changed into a hectocotylus; having a hectocotylis.
HECTOCOTYLUS
One of the arms of the male of most kinds of cephalopods, whichis specially modified in various ways to effect the fertilization ofthe eggs. In a special sense, the greatly modified arm of Argonautaand allied genera, which, after receiving the spermatophores, becomesdetached from the male, and attaches itself to the female forreproductive purposes.
HECTOGRAM
A measure of weight, containing a hundred grams, or about 3.527ounces avoirdupois.
HECTOGRAMME
The same as Hectogram.
HECTOGRAPH
A contrivance for multiple copying, by means of a surface ofgelatin softened with glycerin. [Written also hectograph.]
HECTOR
A bully; a blustering, turbulent, insolent, fellow; one whovexes or provokes.
HECTORISM
The disposition or the practice of a hector; a bullying. [R.]
HECTORLY
Resembling a hector; blustering; insolent; taunting. "Hectorly,ruffianlike swaggering or huffing." Barrow.
HECTOSTERE
A measure of solidity, containing one hundred cubic meters, andequivalent to 3531.66 English or 3531.05 United States cubic feet.
HEDDLE
One of the sets of parallel doubled threads which, withmounting, compose the harness employed to guide the warp threads tothe lathe or batten in a loom.
HEDDLE-EYE
The eye or loop formed in each heddle to receive a warp thread.
HEDDLING
The act of drawing the warp threads through the heddle-eyes ofa weaver's harness; the harness itself. Knight.
HEDERACEOUS
Of, pertaining to, or resembling, ivy.
HEDERAL
Of or pertaining to ivy.
HEDERIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, the ivy (Hedera); as, hedericacid, an acid of the acetylene series.
HEDERIFEROUS
Producing ivy; ivy-bearing.
HEDEROSE
Pertaining to, or of, ivy; full of ivy.
HEDGE
A thicket of bushes, usually thorn bushes; especially, such athicket planted as a fence between any two portions of land; and alsoany sort of shrubbery, as evergreens, planted in a line or as afence; particularly, such a thicket planted round a field to fenceit, or in rows to separate the parts of a garden.The roughest berry on the rudest hedge. Shak.Through the verdant maze Of sweetbrier hedges I pursue my walk.Thomson.
HEDGEBORN
Born under a hedge; of low birth. Shak.
HEDGEBOTE
Same as Haybote.
HEDGEHOG
A small European insectivore (Erinaceus Europรฆus), and otherallied species of Asia and Africa, having the hair on the upper partof its body mixed with prickles or spines. It is able to roll itselfinto a ball so as to present the spines outwardly in every direction.It is nocturnal in its habits, feeding chiefly upon insects.
HEDGELESS
Having no hedge.
HEDGEPIG
A young hedgehog. Shak.
HEDGER
One who makes or mends hedges; also, one who hedges, as, inbetting.
HEDGEROW
A row of shrubs, or trees, planted for inclosure or separationof fields.By hedgerow elms and hillocks green. Milton.
HEDGING BILL
A hedge bill. See under Hedge.
HEDONICS
That branch of moral philosophy which treats of the relation ofduty to pleasure; the science of practical, positive enjoyment orpleasure. J. Grote.
HEDONIST
One who believes in hedonism.
HEDONISTIC
Same as Hedonic, 2.
HEED
To mind; to regard with care; to take notice of; to attend to;to observe.With pleasure Argus the musician heeds. Dryden.
HEEDFUL
Full of heed; regarding with care; cautious; circumspect;attentive; vigilant. Shak.-- Heed"ful*ly, adv.-- Heed"ful*ness, n.
HEEDLESS
Without heed or care; inattentive; careless; thoughtless;unobservant.O, negligent and heedless discipline! Shak.The heedless lover does not know Whose eyes they are that wound himso. Waller.-- Heed"less*ly, adv.-- Heed"less*ness, n.
HEEDY
Heedful. [Obs.] "Heedy shepherds." Spenser.-- Heed"i*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Heed"i*ness, n. [Obs.] Spenser.
HEEL
To lean or tip to one side, as a ship; as, the ship heelsaport; the boat heeled over when the squall struck it. Heeling error(Naut.), a deviation of the compass caused by the heeling of an ironvessel to one side or the other.
HEELBALL
A composition of wax and lampblack, used by shoemakers forpolishing, and by antiquaries in copying inscriptions.
HEELLESS
Without a heel.
HEELPATH
The bank of a canal opposite, and corresponding to, that of thetowpath; berm. [U. S.]
HEELPOST
The post to which a gate or door is hinged.
HEELSPUR
A slender bony or cartilaginous process developed from the heelbone of bats. It helps to support the wing membranes. See Illust. ofCheiropter.
HEELTAP
To add a piece of leather to the heel of (a shoe, boot, etc.)
HEELTOOL
A tool used by turners in metal, having a bend forming a heelnear the cutting end.
HEEMRAAD
In Holland, and, until the 19th century, also in Cape Colony, acouncil to assist a local magistrate in the government of ruraldistricts; hence, also, a member of such a council.
HEEP
The hip of the dog-rose. [Obs.]
HEER
A yarn measure of six hundred yards or of a spindle. SeeSpindle.
HEFT
Same as Haft, n. [Obs.] Waller.
HEFTY
Moderately heavy. [Colloq. U. S.]
HEGELIAN
Pertaining to Hegelianism.-- n.
HEGEMONY
Leadership; preponderant influence or authority; -- usuallyapplied to the relation of a government or state to its neighbors orconfederates. Lieber.
HEGGE
A hedge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HEGIRA
The flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A. D. 622(subsequently established as the first year of the Moslem era);hence, any flight or exodus regarded as like that of Mohammed.
HEIFER
A young cow.
HEIGH-HO
An exclamation of surprise, joy, dejection, uneasiness,weariness, etc. Shak.
HEIGHTENER
One who, or that which, heightens.
HEINOUS
Hateful; hatefully bad; flagrant; odious; atrocious; givinggreat great offense; -- applied to deeds or to character.It were most heinous and accursed sacrilege. Hooker.How heinous had the fact been, how deserving Contempt! Milton.
HEIR
To inherit; to succeed to. [R.]One only daughter heired the royal state. Dryden.
HEIRDOM
The state of an heir; succession by inheritance. Burke.
HEIRESS
, A female heir.
HEIRLESS
Destitute of an heir. Shak.
HEIRLOOM
Any furniture, movable, or personal chattel, which by law orspecial custom descends to the heir along with the inheritance; anypiece of personal property that has been in a family for severalgenerations.Woe to him whose daring hand profanes The honored heirlooms of hisancestors. Moir.
HEIRSHIP
The state, character, or privileges of an heir; right ofinheriting. Heirship movables, certain kinds of movables which theheir is entitled to take, besides the heritable estate. [Scot.]
HEJIRA
See Hegira.
HEKTOGRAPH
See Hectograph.
HELAMYS
See Jumping hare, under Hare.
HELCOPLASTY
The act or process of repairing lesions made by ulcers,especially by a plastic operation.
HELD
imp. & p. p. of Hold.
HELE
Health; welfare. [Obs.] "In joy and perfyt hele." Chaucer.
HELENA
See St. Elmo's fire, under Saint.
HELENIN
A neutral organic substance found in the root of the elecampane(Inula helenium), and extracted as a white crystalline or oilymaterial, with a slightly bitter taste.
HELIAC
Heliacal.
HELIACAL
Emerging from the light of the sun, or passing into it; risingor setting at the same, or nearly the same, time as the sun. Sir T.Browne.
HELIACALLY
In a heliacal manner. De Quincey.
HELIANTHIN
An artificial, orange dyestuff, analogous to tropaolin, andlike it used as an indicator in alkalimetry; -- called also methylorange.
HELIANTHOID
Of or pertaining to the Helianthoidea.
HELIANTHOIDEA
An order of Anthozoa; the Actinaria.
HELICAL
Of or pertaining to, or in the form of, a helix; spiral; as, ahelical staircase; a helical spring.-- Hel"i*cal*ly, adv.
HELICHRYSUM
A genus of composite plants, with shining, commonly white oryellow, or sometimes reddish, radiated involucres, which are oftencalled "everlasting flowers."
HELICIFORM
Having the form of a helix; spiral.
HELICIN
A glucoside obtained as a white crystalline substance bypartial oxidation of salicin, from a willow (Salix Helix of Linnรฆus.)
HELICINE
Curled; spiral; helicoid; -- applied esp. to certain arteriesof the penis.
HELICOGRAPH
An instrument for drawing spiral lines on a plane.
HELICOID
Shaped like a snail shell; pertaining to the Helicidรฆ, or Snailfamily. Helicoid parabola (Math.), the parabolic spiral.
HELICOIDAL
Same as Helicoid.-- Hel`i*coid"al*ly, adv.
HELICON
A mountain in Boeotia, in Greece, supposed by the Greeks to bethe residence of Apollo and the Muses.From Helicon's harmonious springs A thousand rills their mazyprogress take. Gray.
HELICONIA
One of numerous species of Heliconius, a genus of tropicalAmerican butterflies. The wings are usually black, marked with green,crimson, and white.
HELICONIAN
Like or pertaining to the butterflies of the genus Heliconius.
HELICOTREMA
The opening by which the two scalรฆ communicate at the top ofthe cochlea of the ear.
HELIO-
A combining form from Gr. "h`lios the sun.
HELIOCHROME
A photograph in colors. R. Hunt.
HELIOCHROMIC
Pertaining to, or produced by, heliochromy.
HELIOCHROMY
The art of producing photographs in color.
HELIOGRAM
A message transmitted by a heliograph.
HELIOGRAPHIC
Of or pertaining to heliography or a heliograph; made byheliography. Heliographic chart. See under Chart.
HELIOGRAPHY
Photography. R. Hunt.
HELIOGRAVURE
The process of photographic engraving.
HELIOLATER
A worshiper of the sun.
HELIOLATRY
Sun worship. See Sabianism.
HELIOLITE
A fossil coral of the genus Heliolites, having twelve-rayedcells. It is found in the Silurian rocks.
HELIOMETER
An instrument devised originally for measuring the diameter ofthe sun; now employed for delicate measurements of the distance andrelative direction of two stars too far apart to be easily measuredin the field of view of an ordinary telescope.
HELIOMETRY
The apart or practice of measuring the diameters of heavenlybodies, their relative distances, etc. See Heliometer.
HELIOPORA
An East Indian stony coral now known to belong to theAlcyonaria; -- called also blue coral.
HELIOSCOPE
A telescope or instrument for viewing the sun without injury tothe eyes, as through colored glasses, or with mirrors which reflectbut a small portion of light.-- He`li*o*scop`ic, a.
HELIOSTAT
An instrument consisting of a mirror moved by clockwork, bywhich a sunbeam is made apparently stationary, by being steadilydirected to one spot during the whole of its diurnal period; also, ageodetic heliotrope.
HELIOTROPE
An instrument or machine for showing when the sun arrived atthe tropics and equinoctial line.
HELIOTROPER
The person at a geodetic station who has charge of theheliotrope.
HELIOTROPIC
Manifesting heliotropism; turning toward the sun.
HELIOTROPISM
The phenomenon of turning toward the light, seen in many leavesand flowers.
HELIOTYPE
A picture obtained by the process of heliotypy.
HELIOTYPIC
Relating to, or obtained by, heliotypy.
HELIOTYPY
A method of transferring pictures from photographic negativesto hardened gelatin plates from which impressions are produced onpaper as by lithography.
HELIOZOA
An order of fresh-water rhizopods having a more or lessglobular form, with slender radiating pseudopodia; the sunanimalcule.
HELIUM
A gaseous element found in the atmospheres of the sun and earthand in some rare minerals.
HELIX
A nonplane curve whose tangents are all equally inclined to agiven plane. The common helix is the curve formed by the thread ofthe ordinary screw. It is distinguished from the spiral, all theconvolutions of which are in the plane.
HELL
To overwhelm. [Obs.] Spenser.
HELL-CAT
A witch; a hag. Middleton.
HELL-DIVER
The dabchick.
HELL-HAUNTED
Haunted by devils; hellish. Dryden.
HELLANODIC
A judge or umpire in games or combats.
HELLBENDER
A large North American aquatic salamander (Protonopsis horridaor Menopoma Alleghaniensis). It is very voracious and very tenaciousof life. Also called alligator, and water dog.
HELLBORN
Born in or of hell. Shak.
HELLBRED
Produced in hell. Spenser.
HELLBREWED
Prepared in hell. Milton.
HELLBROTH
A composition for infernal purposes; a magical preparation.Shak.
HELLDOOMED
Doomed to hell. Milton.
HELLEBORE
A genus of perennial herbs (Helleborus) of the Crowfoot family,mostly having powerfully cathartic and even poisonous qualities. H.niger is the European black hellebore, or Christmas rose, blossomingin winter or earliest spring. H. officinalis was the officinalhellebore of the ancients.
HELLEBOREIN
A poisonous glucoside accompanying helleborin in severalspecies of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substancewith a bittersweet taste. It has a strong action on the heart,resembling digitalin.
HELLEBORIN
A poisonous glucoside found in several species of hellebore,and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a sharp tinglingtaste. It possesses the essential virtues of the plant; -- calledalso elleborin.
HELLEBORISM
The practice or theory of using hellebore as a medicine.
HELLENE
A native of either ancient or modern Greece; a Greek. Brewer.
HELLENIAN
Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or Greeks.
HELLENIC
Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or inhabitants of Greece;Greek; Grecian. "The Hellenic forces." Jowett (Thucyd. ).
HELLENIST
Pertaining to the Hellenists. Hellenistic language, dialect, oridiom, the Greek spoken or used by the Jews who lived in countrieswhere the Greek language prevailed; the Jewish-Greek dialect or idiomof the Septuagint.
HELLENISTICALLY
According to the Hellenistic manner or dialect. J. Gregory.
HELLENIZE
To use the Greek language; to play the Greek; to Grecize.
HELLENOTYPE
See Ivorytype.
HELLESPONT
A narrow strait between Europe and Asia, now called theDaradanelles. It connects the รgean Sea and the sea of Marmora.
HELLESPONTINE
Of or pertaining to the Hellespont. Mitford.
HELLHAG
A hag of or fit for hell. Bp. Richardson.
HELLHOUND
A dog of hell; an agent of hell.A hellhound, that doth hunt us all to death. Shak.
HELLIER
One who heles or covers; hence, a tiler, slater, or thatcher.[Obs.] [Written also heler.] Usher.
HELLISH
Of or pertaining to hell; like hell; infernal; malignant;wicked; detestable; diabolical. "Hellish hate." Milton.-- Hell"ish*ly, adv.-- Hell"ish*ness, n.
HELLKITE
A kite of infernal breed. Shak.
HELLO
See Halloo.
HELLWARD
Toward hell. Pope.
HELLY
Hellish. Anderson (1573).
HELM
See Haulm, straw.
HELMAGE
Guidance; direction. [R.]
HELMED
Covered with a helmet.The helmed cherubim Are seen in glittering ranks. Milton.
HELMET
A defensive covering for the head. See Casque, Headpiece,Morion, Sallet, and Illust. of Beaver.
HELMET-SHAPED
Shaped like a helmet; galeate. See Illust. of Galeate.
HELMETED
Wearing a helmet; furnished with or having a helmet or helmet-shaped part; galeate.
HELMINTH
An intestinal worm, or wormlike intestinal parasite; one of theHelminthes.
HELMINTHAGOGUE
A vermifuge.
HELMINTHES
One of the grand divisions or branches of the animal kingdom.It is a large group including a vast number of species, most of whichare parasitic. Called also Enthelminthes, Enthelmintha.
HELMINTHIASIS
A disease in which worms are present in some part of the body.
HELMINTHIC
Of or relating to worms, or Helminthes; expelling worms.-- n.
HELMINTHITE
One of the sinuous tracks on the surfaces of many stones, andpopularly considered as worm trails.
HELMINTHOID
Wormlike; vermiform.
HELMINTHOLOGIST
One versed in helminthology.
HELMINTHOLOGY
The natural history, or study, of worms, esp. parasitic worms.
HELMSMAN
The man at the helm; a steersman.
HELMWIND
A wind attending or presaged by the cloud called helm. [Prov.Eng.]
HELOT
A slave in ancient Sparta; a Spartan serf; hence, a slave orserf.Those unfortunates, the Helots of mankind, more or less numerous inevery community. I. Taylor.
HELOTISM
The condition of the Helots or slaves in Sparta; slavery.
HELOTRY
The Helots, collectively; slaves; bondsmen. "The Helotry ofMammon." Macaulay.
HELP
To lend aid or assistance; to contribute strength or means; toavail or be of use; to assist.A generous present helps to persuade, as well as an agreeable person.Garth.To help out, to lend aid; to bring a supply.
HELPER
One who, or that which, helps, aids, assists, or relieves; as,a lay helper in a parish.Thou art the helper of the fatherless. Ps. x. 14.Compassion . . . oftentimes a helper of evils. Dr. H. More.
HELPFUL
Furnishing help; giving aid; assistant; useful; salutary.Heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful tohim! Shak.-- Help"ful*ly, adv.-- Help"ful*ness, n. Milton.
HELPMATE
A helper; a companion; specifically, a wife.In Minorca the ass and the hog are common helpmates, and are yokedtogether in order to turn up the land. Pennant.A waiting woman was generally considered as the most suitablehelpmate for a parson. Macaulay.
HELPMEET
A wife; a helpmate.The Lord God created Adam, . . . and afterwards, on his finding thewant of a helpmeet, caused him to sleep, and took one of his ribs andthence made woman. J. H. Newman.
HELTER-SKELTER
In hurry and confusion; without definite purpose; irregularly.[Colloq.]Helter-skelter have I rode to thee. Shak.A wistaria vine running helter-skelter across the roof. J. C. Harris.
HELVE
To furnish with a helve, as an ax.
HELVETIAN
Same as Helvetic.-- n.
HELVETIC
Of or pertaining to the Helvetii, the ancient inhabitant of theAlps, now Switzerland, or to the modern states and inhabitant of theAlpine regions; as, the Helvetic confederacy; Helvetic states.
HEM
Them [Obs.] Chaucer.
HEMA-
Same as Hรฆma-.
HEMACHATE
A species of agate, sprinkled with spots of red jasper.
HEMACHROME
Same as Hรฆmachrome.
HEMACITE
A composition made from blood, mixed with mineral or vegetablesubstances, used for making buttons, door knobs, etc.
HEMADYNAMICS
The principles of dynamics in their application to the blood;that part of science which treats of the motion of the blood.
HEMADYNAMOMETER
An instrument by which the pressure of the blood in thearteries, or veins, is measured by the height to which it will raisea column of mercury; -- called also a hรฆmomanometer.
HEMAL
Relating to the blood or blood vessels; pertaining to, situatedin the region of, or on the side with, the heart and great bloodvessels; -- opposed to neural.
HEMAPHAEIN
Same as Hรฆmaphรฆin.
HEMAPOPHYSIS
The second element in each half of a hemal arch, correspondingto the sternal part of a rib. Owen.-- Hem`a*po*phys"i*al, a.
HEMASTATICS
Laws relating to the equilibrium of the blood in the bloodvessels.
HEMATACHOMETER
Same as Hรฆmatachometer.
HEMATEIN
A reddish brown or violet crystalline substance, C16H12O6, gotfrom hematoxylin by partial oxidation, and regarded as analogous tothe phthaleins.
HEMATEMESIS
A vomiting of blood.
HEMATHERM
A warm-blooded animal. [R.]
HEMATHERMAL
Warm-blooded; hematothermal. [R]
HEMATIC
Same as Hรฆmatic.
HEMATIN
A bluish black, amorphous substance containing iron andobtained from blood. It exists the red blood corpuscles united withglobulin, and the form of hemoglobin or oxyhemoglobin gives to theblood its red color.
HEMATINIC
Any substance, such as an iron salt or organic compoundcontaining iron, which when ingested tends to increase the hemoglobincontents of the blood.
HEMATINOMETER
A form of hemoglobinometer.
HEMATINOMETRIC
Relating to the measurement of the amount of hematin orhemoglobin contained in blood, or other fluids.
HEMATINON
A red consisting of silica, borax, and soda, fused with oxideof copper and iron, and used in enamels, mosaics, etc.
HEMATITE
An important ore of iron, the sesquioxide, so called because ofthe red color of the powder. It occurs in splendent rhombohedralcrystals, and in massive and earthy forms; -- the last called redocher. Called also specular iron, oligist iron, rhombohedral ironore, and bloodstone. See Brown hematite, under Brown.
HEMATITIC
Of or pertaining to hematite, or resembling it.
HEMATO
See Hรฆma-.
HEMATOCELE
A tumor filled with blood.
HEMATOCRYA
The cold-blooded vertebrates, that is, all but the mammals andbirds; -- the antithesis to Hematotherma.
HEMATOCRYSTALLIN
See Hemoglobin.
HEMATOID
Resembling blood.
HEMATOIDIN
A crystalline or amorphous pigment, free from iron, formed fromhematin in old blood stains, and in old hemorrhages in the body. Itresembles bilirubin. When present in the corpora lutea it is calledhรฆmolutein.
HEMATOLOGY
The science which treats of the blood.
HEMATOMA
A circumscribed swelling produced by an effusion of bloodbeneath the skin.
HEMATOPHILIA
A condition characterized by a tendency to profuse anduncontrollable hemorrhage from the slightest wounds.
HEMATOSIN
The hematin of blood. [R.]
HEMATOTHERMA
The warm-blooded vertebrates, comprising the mammals and birds;-- the antithesis to hematocrya.
HEMATOTHERMAL
Warm-blooded.
HEMATOXYLIN
Hรฆmatoxylin.
HEMATURIA
Passage of urine mingled with blood.
HEMAUTOGRAPHY
The obtaining of a curve similar to a pulse curve orsphygmogram by allowing the blood from a divided artery to strikeagainst a piece of paper.
HEMERALOPIA
A disease of the eyes, in consequence of which a person can seeclearly or without pain only by daylight or a strong artificiallight; day sight.
HEMEROBIAN
A neuropterous insect of the genus Hemerobius, and alliedgenera.
HEMEROBID
Of relating to the hemerobians.
HEMEROCALLIS
A genus of plants, some species of which are cultivated fortheir beautiful flowers; day lily.
HEMI-
A prefix signifying half.
HEMI-DEMI-SEMIQUAVER
A short note, equal to one fourth of a semiquaver, or thesixty-fourth part of a whole note.
HEMIALBUMIN
Same as Hemialbumose.
HEMIALBUMOSE
An albuminous substance formed in gastric digestion, and by theaction of boiling dilute acids on albumin. It is readily convertibleinto hemipeptone. Called also hemialbumin.
HEMIANAESTHESIA
Anรฆsthesia upon one side of the body.
HEMIBRANCHI
An order of fishes having an incomplete or reduced branchialapparatus. It includes the sticklebacks, the flutemouths, andFistularia.
HEMICARDIA
A lateral half of the heart, either the right or left. B. G.Wilder.
HEMICARP
One portion of a fruit that spontaneously divides into halves.
HEMICEREBRUM
A lateral half of the cerebrum. Wilder.
HEMICOLLIN
See Semiglutin.
HEMICRANIA
A pain that affects only one side of the head.
HEMICRANY
Hemicranis.
HEMIDACTYL
Any species of Old World geckoes of the genus Hemidactylus. Thehemidactyls have dilated toes, with two rows of plates beneath.
HEMIDITONE
The lesser third. Busby.
HEMIGAMOUS
Having one of the two florets in the same spikelet neuter, andthe other unisexual, whether male or female; -- said of grasses.
HEMIGLYPH
The half channel or groove in the edge of the triglyph in theDoric order.
HEMIHEDRAL
Having half of the similar parts of a crystals, instead of all;consisting of half the planes which full symmetry would require, aswhen a cube has planes only on half of its eight solid angles, or oneplane out of a pair on each of its edges; or as in the case of atetrahedron, which is hemihedral to an octahedron, it being containedunder four of the planes of an octahedron.-- Hem`i*he"dral*ly, adv.
HEMIHEDRISM
The property of crystallizing hemihedrally.
HEMIHEDRON
A solid hemihedrally derived. The tetrahedron is a hemihedron.
HEMIHOLOHEDRAL
Presenting hemihedral forms, in which half the sectants havethe full number of planes.
HEMIMELLITIC
Having half as many (three) carboxyl radicals as mellitic acid;-- said of an organic acid.
HEMIMETABOLA
Those insects which have an incomplete metamorphosis.
HEMIMETABOLIC
Having an incomplete metamorphosis, the larvรฆ differing fromthe adults chiefly in laking wings, as in the grasshoppers andcockroaches.
HEMIMORPHIC
Having the two ends modified with unlike planes; -- said of acrystal.
HEMIN
A substance, in the form of reddish brown, microscopic,prismatic crystals, formed from dried blood by the action of strongacetic acid and common salt; -- called also Teichmann's crystals.Chemically, it is a hydrochloride of hematin.
HEMINA
A measure of half a sextary. Arbuthnot.
HEMIONUS
A wild ass found in Thibet; the kiang. Darwin.
HEMIORTHOTYPE
Same as Monoclinic.
HEMIPEPTONE
A product of the gastric and pancreatic digestion of albuminousmatter.
HEMIPLEGIA
A palsy that affects one side only of the body.-- Hem`i"pleg"ic, a.
HEMIPLEGY
Hemiplegia.
HEMIPODE
Any bird of the genus Turnix. Various species inhabit Asia,Africa, and Australia.
HEMIPROTEIN
An insoluble, proteid substance, described by Schรผtzenberger,formed when albumin is heated for some time with dilute sulphuricacid. It is apparently identical with antialbumid and dyspeptone.
HEMIPTER
One of the Hemiptera.
HEMIPTERA
An order of hexapod insects having a jointed proboscis,including four sharp stylets (mandibles and maxillรฆ), for piercing.In many of the species (Heteroptera) the front wings are partiallycoriaceous, and different from the others.
HEMIPTERAN
One of the Hemiptera; an hemipter.
HEMISECT
To divide along the mesial plane.
HEMISECTION
A division along the mesial plane; also, one of the parts sodivided.
HEMISPHERE
Containing, or pertaining to, a hemisphere; as, a hemisphericfigure or form; a hemispherical body.
HEMISPHEROID
A half of a spheroid.
HEMISPHEROIDAL
Resembling, or approximating to, a hemisphere in form.
HEMISPHERULE
A half spherule.
HEMISTICH
Half a poetic verse or line, or a verse or line not completed.
HEMISTICHAL
Pertaining to, or written in, hemistichs; also, by, oraccording to, hemistichs; as, a hemistichal division of a verse.
HEMISYSTOLE
Contraction of only one ventricle of the heart.
HEMITONE
See Semitone.
HEMITROPE
Half turned round; half inverted; (Crystallog.) having atwinned structure.
HEMITROPY
Twin composition in crystals.
HEMLOCK
The name of several poisonous umbelliferous herbs having finelycut leaves and small white flowers, as the Cicuta maculata,bulbifera, and virosa, and the Conium maculatum. See Conium.
HEMMEL
A shed or hovel for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
HEMMER
One who, or that which, hems with a needle. Specifically:(a) An attachment to a sewing machine, for turning under the edge ofa piece of fabric, preparatory to stitching it down.(b) A tool for turning over the edge of sheet metal to make a hem.
HEMO-
Same as Hรฆma-, Hรฆmo-.
HEMOGLOBIN
The normal coloring matter of the red blood corpuscles ofvertebrate animals. It is composed of hematin and globulin, and isalso called hรฆmatoglobulin. In arterial blood, it is always combinedwith oxygen, and is then called oxyhemoglobin. It crystallizes underdifferent forms from different animals, and when crystallized, iscalled hรฆmatocrystallin. See Blood crystal, under Blood.
HEMOGLOBINOMETER
Same as Hรฆmochromometer.
HEMOPHILIA
See Hematophilia.
HEMOPTYSIS
The expectoration of blood, due usually to hemorrhage from themucous membrane of the lungs.
HEMORRHAGE
Any discharge of blood from the blood vessels.
HEMORRHAGIC
Pertaining or tending to a flux o
HEMORRHOIDAL
Of or pertaining to the rectum; rectal; as, the hemorrhoidalarteries, veins, and nerves.
HEMORRHOIDS
Livid and painful swellings formed by the dilation of the bloodvessels around the margin of, or within, the anus, from which bloodor mucus is occasionally discharged; piles; emerods. [The sing.hemorrhoid is rarely used.]
HEMOSTATIC
Of or relating to stagnation of the blood.
HEMOTHORAX
An effusion of blood into the cavity of the pleura.
HEMP
A plant of the genus Cannabis (C. sativa), the fibrous skin orbark of which is used for making cloth and cordage. The name is alsoapplied to various other plants yielding fiber.
HEMPY
Like hemp. [R.] Howell.
HEMSTITCH
To ornament at the head of a broad hem by drawing out a fewparallel threads, and fastening the cross threads in successive smallclusters; as, to hemstitch a handkerchief.
HEMSTITCHED
Having a broad hem separated from the body of the article by aline of open work; as, a hemistitched handkerchief.
HEMUSE
The roebuck in its third year. [Prov. Eng.]
HEN
The female of the domestic fowl; also, the female of grouse,pheasants, or any kind of birds; as, the heath hen; the gray hen.
HEN-HEARTED
Cowardly; timid; chicken-hearted. Udall.
HENBANE
A plant of the genus Hyoscyamus (H. niger). All parts of theplant are poisonous, and the leaves are used for the same purposes asbelladonna. It is poisonous to domestic fowls; whence the name.Called also, stinking nightshade, from the fetid odor of the plant.See Hyoscyamus.
HENBIT
A weed of the genus Lamium (L. amplexicaule) with deeplycrenate leaves.
HENCE
To send away. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
HENCEFORTH
From this time forward; henceforward.I never from thy side henceforth to stray. Milton.
HENCEFORWARD
From this time forward; henceforth.
HENCHBOY
A page; a servant. [Obs.]
HENCHMAN
An attendant; a servant; a follower. Now chiefly used as apolitical cant term.
HENCOOP
A coop or cage for hens.
HENDECAGON
A plane figure of eleven sides and eleven angles. [Written alsoendecagon.]
HENDECANE
A hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the paraffin series; -- so calledbecause it has eleven atoms of carbon in each molecule. Called alsoendecane, undecane.
HENDECASYLLABIC
Pertaining to a line of eleven syllables.
HENDECASYLLABLE
A metrical line of eleven syllables. J. Warton.
HENDECATOIC
Undecylic; pertaining to, or derived from, hendecane; as,hendecatoic acid.
HENDIADYS
A figure in which the idea is expressed by two nouns connectedby and, instead of by a noun and limiting adjective; as, we drinkfrom cups and gold, for golden cups.
HENDY
See Hende.
HENEN
Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HENG
Hung. Chaucer.
HENHOUSE
A house or shelter for fowls.
HENHUSSY
A cotquean; a man who intermeddles with women's concerns.
HENIQUEN
See Jeniquen.
HENNA
A thorny tree or shrub of the genus Lawsonia (L. alba). Thefragrant white blossoms are used by the Buddhists in religiousceremonies. The powdered leaves furnish a red coloring matter used inthe East to stain the hails and fingers, the manes of horses, etc.
HENNERY
An inclosed place for keeping hens. [U. S.]
HENNES
Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HENNOTANNIC
Pertaining to, or designating, a brown resinous substanceresembling tannin, and extracted from the henna plant; as,hennotannic acid.
HENOTHEISM
Primitive religion in which each of several divinities isregarded as independent, and is worshiped without reference to therest. [R.]
HENOTIC
Harmonizing; irenic. Gladstone.
HENPECK
To subject to petty authority; -- said of a wife who thustreats her husband. Commonly used in the past participle (oftenadjectively).
HENRIETTA CLOTH
A fine wide wooled fabric much used for women's dresses.
HENROOST
A place where hens roost.
HENRY
The unit of electric induction; the induction in a circuit whenthe electro-motive force induced in this circuit is one volt, whilethe inducing current varies at the rate of one ampรจre a second.
HENT
To seize; to lay hold on; to catch; to get. [Obs.] PiersPlowman. Spenser.This cursed Jew him hente and held him fast. Chaucer.But all that he might of his friendes hente On bookes and on learninghe it spente. Chaucer.
HENWARE
A coarse, blackish seaweed. See Badderlocks.
HENXMAN
Henchman. [Obs.]
HEP
See Hip, the fruit of the dog-rose.
HEP TREE
The wild dog-rose.
HEPAR
Liver of sulphur; a substance of a liver-brown color, sometimesused in medicine. It is formed by fusing sulphur with carbonates ofthe alkalies (esp. potassium), and consists essentially of alkalinesulphides. Called also hepar sulphuris (.
HEPATIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, the plants called Hepaticรฆ, orscale mosses and liverworts. Hepatic duct (Anat.), any biliary duct;esp., the duct, or one of the ducts, which carries the bile from theliver to the cystic and common bile ducts. See Illust., underDigestive.-- Hepatic gas (Old Chem.), sulphureted hydrogen gas.-- Hepatic mercurial ore, or Hepatic cinnabar. See under Cinnabar.
HEPATICA
A genus of pretty spring flowers closely related to Anemone;squirrel cup.
HEPATICAL
Hepatic. [R.]
HEPATITE
A variety of barite emitting a fetid odor when rubbed orheated.
HEPATITIS
Inflammation of the liver.
HEPATIZATION
Impregnating with sulphureted hydrogen gas. [Obs.]
HEPATO-PANCREAS
A digestive gland in Crustacea, Mollusca, etc., usually calledthe liver, but different from the liver of vertebrates.
HEPATOCELE
Hernia of the liver.
HEPATOCYSTIC
Of or pertaining to the liver and gall bladder; as, thehepatocystic ducts.
HEPATOGASTRIC
See Gastrohepatic.
HEPATOLOGY
The science which treats of the liver; a treatise on the liver.
HEPATORENAL
Of or pertaining to the liver and kidneys; as, the hepatorenalligament.
HEPATOSCOPY
Divination by inspecting the liver of animals.
HEPPELWHITE
Designating a light and elegant style developed in Englandunder George III., chiefly by Messrs. A.Heppelwhite & Co.
HEPPEN
Neat; fit; comfortable. [Obs.]
HEPPER
A young salmon; a parr.
HEPTA
A combining form from Gr. "epta`, seven.
HEPTACHORD
A composition sung to the sound of seven chords or tones. Moore(Encyc. of Music).
HEPTAD
An atom which has a valence of seven, and which can betheoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, sevenmonad atoms or radicals; as, iodine is a heptad in iodic acid. Alsoused as an adjective.
HEPTADE
The sum or number of seven.
HEPTAGLOT
A book in seven languages.
HEPTAGON
A plane figure consisting of seven sides and having sevenangles.
HEPTAGONAL
Having seven angles or sides. Heptagonal numbers (Arith.), thenumbers of the series 1, 7, 18, 34, 55, etc., being figurate numbersformed by adding successively the terms of the arithmetical series 1,6, 11, 16, 21, etc.
HEPTAGYNIA
A Linnรฆan order of plants having seven pistils.
HEPTAHEDRON
A solid figure with seven sides.
HEPTAMEROUS
Consisting of seven parts, or having the parts in sets ofsevens. Gray.
HEPTANDRIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants having seven stamens.
HEPTANE
Any one of several isometric hydrocarbons, C7H16, of theparaffin series (nine are possible, four are known); -- so calledbecause the molecule has seven carbon atoms. Specifically, acolorless liquid, found as a constituent of petroleum, in the tar oilof cannel coal, etc.
HEPTANGULAR
Having seven angles.
HEPTAPHYLLOUS
Having seven leaves.
HEPTARCH
Same as Heptarchist.
HEPTARCHIC
Of or pertaining to a heptarchy; constituting or consisting ofa heptarchy. T. Warton.
HEPTARCHIST
A ruler of one division of a heptarchy. [Written alsoheptarch.]
HEPTARCHY
A government by seven persons; also, a country under sevenrulers.
HEPTASPERMOUS
Having seven seeds.
HEPTASTICH
A composition consisting of seven lines or verses.
HEPTATEUCH
The first seven books of the Testament.
HEPTAVALENT
Having seven units of attractive force or affinity; -- said ofheptad elements or radicals.
HEPTENE
Same as Heptylene.
HEPTINE
Any one of a series of unsaturated metameric hydrocarbons,C7H12, of the acetylene series.
HEPTOIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, heptane; as, heptoic acid.
HEPTONE
A liquid hydrocarbon, C7H10, of the valylene series.
HEPTYL
A compound radical, C7H15, regarded as the essential radical ofheptane and a related series of compounds.
HEPTYLENE
A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, C7H14, of the ethylene series;also, any one of its isomers. Called also heptene.
HEPTYLIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, heptyl or heptane; as, heptylicalcohol. Cf. .
HER
The form of the objective and the possessive case of thepersonal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out.
HERACLEONITE
A follower of Heracleon of Alexandria, a Judaizing Gnostic, inthe early history of the Christian church.
HERAKLINE
A picrate compound, used as an explosive in blasting.
HERALD
An officer whose business was to denounce or proclaim war, tochallenge to battle, to proclaim peace, and to bear messages from thecommander of an army. He was invested with a sacred and inviolablecharacter.
HERALDIC
Of or pertaining to heralds or heraldry; as, heraldicblazoning; heraldic language. T. Warton.
HERALDICALLY
In an heraldic manner; according to the rules of heraldry.
HERALDRY
The art or office of a herald; the art, practice, or science ofrecording genealogies, and blazoning arms or ensigns armorial; also,of marshaling cavalcades, processions, and public ceremonies.
HERALDSHIP
The office of a herald. Selden.
HERAPATHITE
The sulphate of iodoquinine, a substance crystallizing in thinplates remarkable for their effects in polarizing light.
HERAUD
A herald. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERB-WOMAN
A woman that sells herbs.
HERBACEOUS
Of or pertaining to herbs; having the nature, texture, orcharacteristics, of an herb; as, herbaceous plants; an herbaceousstem.
HERBAGE
The liberty or right of pasture in the forest or in the groundsof another man. Blount.
HERBAGED
Covered with grass. Thomson.
HERBAL
Of or pertaining to herbs. Quarles.
HERBALISM
The knowledge of herbs.
HERBALIST
One skilled in the knowledge of plants; a collector of, ordealer in, herbs, especially medicinal herbs.
HERBAR
An herb. [Obs.] Spenser.
HERBARIAN
A herbalist.
HERBARIST
A herbalist. [Obs.]
HERBARIZE
See Herborize.
HERBARY
A garden of herbs; a cottage garden. T. Warton.
HERBER
A garden; a pleasure garden. [Obs.] "Into an herber green."Chaucer.
HERBERGAGE
Harborage; lodging; shelter; harbor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERBERGEOUR
A harbinger. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERBESCENT
Growing into herbs.
HERBID
Covered with herbs. [Obs.] Bailey.
HERBIFEROUS
Bearing herbs or vegetation.
HERBIST
A herbalist.
HERBIVORA
An extensive division of Mammalia. It formerly included theProboscidea, Hyracoidea, Perissodactyla, and Artiodactyla, but bylater writers it is generally restricted to the two latter groups(Ungulata). They feed almost exclusively upon vegetation.
HERBIVORE
One of the Herbivora. P. H. Gosse.
HERBIVOROUS
Eating plants; of or pertaining to the Herbivora.
HERBLESS
Destitute of herbs or of vegetation. J. Warton.
HERBLET
A small herb. Shak.
HERBORIST
A herbalist. Ray.
HERBORIZE
To search for plants, or new species of plants, with a view toclassifying them.He herborized as he traveled. W. Tooke.
HERBOROUGH
A harbor. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
HERBY
Having the nature of, pertaining to, or covered with, herbs orherbage. "Herby valleys." Chapman.
HERCOGAMOUS
Not capable of self-fertilization; -- said of hermaphroditeflowers in which some structural obstacle forbids autogamy.
HERCULES
A hero, fabled to have been the son of Jupiter and Alcmena, andcelebrated for great strength, esp. for the accomplishment of histwelve great tasks or "labors."
HERCYNIAN
Of or pertaining to an extensive forest in Germany, of whichthere are still portions in Swabia and the Hartz mountains.
HERD
Haired. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERDBOOK
A book containing the list and pedigrees of one or more herdsof choice breeds of cattle; -- also called herd record, or herdregister.
HERDER
A herdsman. [R.]
HERDERITE
A rare fluophosphate of glucina, in small white crystals.
HERDESS
A shepherdess; a female herder. Sir P. Sidney. Chaucer.
HERDGROOM
A herdsman. [Obs.]
HERDIC
A kind of low-hung cab.
HERDSWOMAN
A woman who tends a herd. Sir W. Scott.
HERE
Hair. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERE-AT
At, or by reason of, this; as, he was offended hereat. Hooker.
HEREAFTER
In time to come; in some future time or state.Hereafter he from war shall come. Dryden.
HEREAFTERWARD
Hereafter. [Obs.]Thou shalt hereafterward . . . come. Chaucer.
HEREDITABILITY
State of being hereditable. Brydges.
HEREDITABLY
By inheritance. W. Tooke.
HEREDITAMENT
Any species of property that may be inherited; lands,tenements, anything corporeal or incorporeal, real, personal, ormixed, that may descend to an heir. Blackstone.
HEREDITARILY
By inheritance; in an hereditary manner. Pope.
HEREDITY
Hereditary transmission of the physical and psychical qualitiesof parents to their offspring; the biological law by which livingbeings tend to repeat their characteristics in their descendants. SeePangenesis.
HEREFORD
One of a breed of cattle originating in Herefordshire, England.The Herefords are good working animals, and their beef-producingquality is excellent.
HEREHENCE
From hence. [Obs.]
HEREIN
In this.Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit. John xv. 8.
HEREINAFTER
In the following part of this (writing, document, speech, andthe like).
HEREINBEFORE
In the preceding part of this (writing, document, book, etc.).
HEREINTO
Into this. Hooker.
HEREMITICAL
Of or pertaining to a hermit; solitary; secluded from society.Pope.
HEREN
Made of hair. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HEREOF
Of this; concerning this; from this; hence.Hereof comes it that Prince Harry is valiant. Shak.
HEREON
On or upon this; hereupon.
HEREOUT
Out of this. [Obs.] Spenser.
HERESIARCH
A leader in heresy; the chief of a sect of heretics. Bp.Stillingfleet.
HERESIARCHY
A chief or great heresy. [R.]The book itself [the Alcoran] consists of heresiarchies against ourblessed Savior. Sir T. Herbert.
HERESIOGRAPHER
One who writes on heresies.
HERESIOGRAPHY
A treatise on heresy.
HERESY
Religious opinion opposed to the authorized doctrinal standardsof any particular church, especially when tending to promote schismor separation; lack of orthodox or sound belief; rejection of, orerroneous belief in regard to, some fundamental religious doctrine ortruth; heterodoxy.Doubts 'mongst divines, and difference of texts, From whence arisediversity of sects, And hateful heresies by God abhor'd. Spenser.Deluded people! that do not consider that the greatest heresy in theworld is a wicked life. Tillotson.
HERETIC
One who having made a profession of Christian belief,deliberately and pertinaciously refuses to believe one or more of thearticles of faith "determined by the authority of the universalchurch." Addis & Arnold.
HERETICAL
Containing heresy; of the nature of, or characterized by,heresy.
HERETICALLY
In an heretical manner.
HERETICATE
To decide to be heresy or a heretic; to denounce as a hereticor heretical. Bp. Hall.And let no one be minded, on the score of my neoterism, to hereticateme. Fitzed. Hall.
HERETIFICATION
The act of hereticating or pronouncing heretical. London Times.
HERETO
To this; hereunto. Hooker.
HERETOFORE
Up to this time; hitherto; before; in time past. Shak.
HEREUNTO
Unto this; up to this time; hereto.
HEREUPON
On this; hereon.
HEREWITH
With this.
HERIE
To praise; to worship. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERIOT
Formerly, a payment or tribute of arms or militaryaccouterments, or the best beast, or chattel, due to the lord on thedeath of a tenant; in modern use, a customary tribute of goods orchattels to the lord of the fee, paid on the decease of a tenant.Blackstone. Bouvier. Heriot custom, a heriot depending on usage.-- Heriot service (Law), a heriot due by reservation in a grant orlease of lands. Spelman. Blackstone.
HERIOTABLE
Subject to the payment of a heriot. Burn.
HERISSON
A beam or bar armed with iron spikes, and turning on a pivot; -- used to block up a passage.
HERITABILITY
The state of being heritable.
HERITAGE
A possession; the Israelites, as God's chosen people; also, aflock under pastoral charge. Joel iii. 2.1 Peter v. 3.
HERITANCE
Heritage; inheritance. [R.]Robbing their children of the heritance Their fathers handed downSouthey.
HERITOR
A proprietor or landholder in a parish. [Scot.]
HERL
Same as Harl, 2.
HERMA
See Hermes,
HERMAPHRODEITY
Hermaphrodism. B. Jonson.
HERMAPHRODISM
See Hermaphroditism.
HERMAPHRODITE
An individual which has the attributes of both male and female,or which unites in itself the two sexes; an animal or plant havingthe parts of generation of both sexes, as when a flower contains boththe stamens and pistil within the same calyx, or on the samereceptacle. In some cases reproduction may take place without theunion of the distinct individuals. In the animal kingdom truehermaphrodites are found only among the invertebrates. See Illust. inAppendix, under Helminths.
HERMAPHRODITISM
The union of the two sexes in the same individual, or thecombination of some of their characteristics or organs in oneindividual.
HERMENEUTICALLY
According to the principles of interpretation; as, a verse ofScripture was examined hermeneutically.
HERMENEUTICS
The science of interpretation and explanation; exegesis; esp.,that branch of theology which defines the laws whereby the meaning ofthe Scriptures is to be ascertained. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.
HERMES
See Mercury.
HERMITAGE
A celebrated French wine, both white and red, of the Departmentof Drรดme.
HERMITARY
A cell annexed to an abbey, for the use of a hermit. Howell.
HERMITESS
A female hermit. Coleridge.
HERMITICAL
Pertaining to, or suited for, a hermit. Coventry.
HERMODACTYL
A heart-shaped bulbous root, about the size of a finger,brought from Turkey, formerly used as a cathartic.
HERMOGENIAN
A disciple of Hermogenes, and heretical teacher who lived inAfrica near the close of the second century. He ha
HERN
A heron; esp., the common European heron. "A stately hern."Trench.
HERNANI
A thin silk or woolen goods, for women's dresses, woven invarious styles and colors.
HERNE
A corner. [Obs.]Lurking in hernes and in lanes blind. Chaucer.
HERNIA
A protrusion, consisting of an organ or part which has escapedfrom its natural cavity, and projects through some natural oraccidental opening in the walls of the latter; as, hernia of thebrain, of the lung, or of the bowels. Hernia of the abdominal viscerain most common. Called also rupture. Strangulated hernia, a hernia sotightly compressed in some part of the channel through which it hasbeen protruded as to arrest its circulation, and produce swelling ofthe protruded part. It may occur in recent or chronic hernia, but ismore common in the latter.
HERNIAL
Of, or connected with, hernia.
HERNIOTOMY
A cutting for the cure or relief of hernia; celotomy.
HERNSHAW
Heronshaw. [Obs.] Spenser.
HERO
An illustrious man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to aplace among the gods; a demigod, as Hercules.
HERODIAN
One of a party among the Jews, composed of partisans of Herodof Galilee. They joined with the Pharisees against Christ.
HERODIONES
A division of wading birds, including the herons, storks, andallied forms. Called also Herodii.-- He*ro`di*o"nine, a.
HEROESS
A heroine. [Obs.] Dryden.
HEROIC
Larger than life size, but smaller than colossal; -- said ofthe representation of a human figure. Heroic Age, the age when theheroes, or those called the children of the gods, are supposed tohave lived.-- Heroic poetry, that which celebrates the deeds of a hero; epicpoetry.-- Heroic treatment or remedies (Med.), treatment or remedies of asevere character, suited to a desperate case.-- Heroic verse (Pros.), the verse of heroic or epic poetry, beingin English, German, and Italian the iambic of ten syllables; inFrench the iambic of twelve syllables; and in classic poetry thehexameter.
HEROICAL
Heroic. [R.] Spectator.-- He*ro"ic*al*ly, adv.-- He*ro"ic*al*ness, n.
HEROICNESS
Heroism. [R.] W. Montagu.
HEROISM
The qualities characteristic of a hero, as courage, bravery,fortitude, unselfishness, etc.; the display of such qualities.Heroism is the self-devotion of genius manifesting itself in action.Hare.
HERON
Any wading bird of the genus Ardea and allied genera, of thefamily Ardeidรฆ. The herons have a long, sharp bill, and long legs andtoes, with the claw of the middle toe toothed. The common Europeanheron (Ardea cinerea) is remarkable for its directly ascendingflight, and was formerly hunted with the larger falcons.
HERONER
A hawk used in hunting the heron. "Heroner and falcon."Chaucer.
HERONRY
A place where herons breed.
HERONSEW
A heronshaw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERONSHAW
A heron. [Written variously hernshaw, harnsey, etc.]
HEROSHIP
The character or personality of a hero. "Three years ofheroship." Cowper.
HERPES
An eruption of the skin, taking various names, according to itsform, or the part affected; especially, an eruption of vesicles insmall distinct clusters, accompanied with itching or tingling,including shingles, ringworm, and the like; -- so called from itstendency to creep or spread from one part of the skin to another.
HERPETIC
Pertaining to, or resembling, the herpes; partaking of thenature of herpes; as, herpetic eruptions.
HERPETISM
See Dartrous diathesis, under Dartrous.
HERPETOLOGIST
One versed in herpetology, or the natural history of reptiles.
HERPETOLOGY
The natural history of reptiles; that branch of zoรถlogy whichrelates to reptiles, including their structure, classification, andhabits.
HERPETOTOMIST
One who dissects, or studies the anatomy of, reptiles.
HERPETOTOMY
The anatomy or dissection of reptiles.
HERR
A title of respect given to gentlemen in Germany, equivalent tothe English Mister.
HERRENHAUS
See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.
HERRING
One of various species of fishes of the genus Clupea, andallied genera, esp. the common round or English herring (C. harengus)of the North Atlantic. Herrings move in vast schools, coming inspring to the shores of Europe and America, where they are salted andsmoked in great quantities. Herring gull (Zoรถl.), a large gull whichfeeds in part upon herrings; esp., Larus argentatus in America, andL. cachinnans in England. See Gull.-- Herring hog (Zoรถl.), the common porpoise.-- King of the herrings. (Zoรถl.) (a) The chimรฆra (C. monstrosa)which follows the schools of herring. See Chimรฆra. (b) The opah.
HERRINGBONE
Pertaining to, or like, the spine of a herring; especially,characterized by an arrangement of work in rows of parallel lines,which in the alternate rows slope in different directions.Herringbone stitch, a kind of cross-stitch in needlework, chieflyused in flannel. Simmonds.
HERRNHUTER
One of the Moravians; -- so called from the settlement ofHerrnhut (the Lord's watch) made, about 1722, by the Moravians at theinvitation of Nicholas Lewis, count of Zinzendorf, upon his estate inthe circle of Bautzen.
HERS
See the Note under Her, pr.
HERSAL
Rehearsal. [Obs.] Spenser.
HERSCHEL
See Uranus.
HERSCHELIAN
Of or relating to Sir William Herschel; as, the Herscheliantelescope.
HERSE
A kind of gate or portcullis, having iron bars, like a harrow,studded with iron spikes. It is hung above gateways so that it may bequickly lowered, to impede the advance of an enemy. Farrow.
HERSILLON
A beam with projecting spikes, used to make a breachimpassable.
HERT
A hart. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERTE
A heart. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERTELY
Hearty; heartily. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HERTZIAN
Of or pert. to the German physicist Heinrich Hertz.
HERY
To worship; to glorify; to praise. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
HERZOG
A member of the highest rank of nobility in Germany andAustria, corresponding to the British duke.
HESITANTLY
With hesitancy or doubt.
HESITATE
To utter with hesitation or to intimate by a reluctant manner.[Poetic & R.]Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike. Pope.
HESITATINGLY
With hesitation or doubt.
HESITATIVE
Showing, or characterized by, hesitation.[He said] in his mild, hesitative way. R. D. Blackmore.
HESITATORY
Hesitating. R. North.
HESP
A measure of two hanks of linen thread. [Scot.] [Written alsohasp.] Knight.
HESPER
The evening; Hesperus.
HESPERETIN
A white, crystalline substance having a sweetish taste,obtained by the decomposition of hesperidin, and regarded as acomplex derivative of caffeic acid.
HESPERIAN
Western; being in the west; occidental. [Poetic] Milton.
HESPERID
Same as 3d Hesperian.
HESPERIDENE
An isomeric variety of terpene from orange oil.
HESPERIDES
The daughters of Hesperus, or Night (brother of Atlas), andfabled possessors of a garden producing golden apples, in Africa, atthe western extremity of the known world. To slay the guarding dragonand get some of these apples was one of the labors of Hercules.Called also Atlantides.
HESPERIDIN
A glucoside found in ripe and unripe fruit (as the orange), andextracted as a white crystalline substance.
HESPERIDIUM
A large berry with a thick rind, as a lemon or an orange.
HESPERORNIS
A genus of large, extinct, wingless birds from the Cretaceousdeposits of Kansas, belonging to the Odontornithes. They had teeth,and were essentially carnivorous swimming ostriches. Several speciesare known. See Illust. in Append.
HESSIAN
Of or relating to Hesse, in Germany, or to the Hessians.Hessian boots, or Hessians, boot of a kind worn in England, in theearly part of the nineteenth century, tasseled in front. Thackeray.-- Hessian cloth, or Hessians, a coarse hempen cloth for sacking.-- Hessian crucible. See under Crucible.-- Hessian fly (Zoรถl.), a small dipterous fly or midge (Cecidomyiadestructor). Its larvรฆ live between the base of the lower leaves andthe stalk of wheat, and are very destructive to young wheat; -- socalled from the erroneous idea that it was brought into America bythe Hessian troops, during the Revolution.
HESSITE
A lead-gray sectile mineral. It is a telluride of silver.
HEST
Command; precept; injunction. [Archaic] See Behest. "At thyhest." Shak.Let him that yields obey the victor's hest. Fairfax.Yet I thy hest will all perform, at full. Tennyson.
HESYCHAST
One of a mystical sect of the Greek Church in the fourteenthcentury; a quietist. Brande & C.
HETCHEL
Same as Hatchel.
HETE
Variant of Hote. [Obs.]But one avow to greate God I hete. Chaucer.
HETERACANTH
Having the spines of the dorsal fin unsymmetrical, or thickenedalternately on the right and left sides.
HETERARCHY
The government of an alien. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
HETERAUXESIS
Unequal growth of a cell, or of a part of a plant.
HETERO-
A combining form signifying other, other than usual, different;as, heteroclite, heterodox, heterogamous.
HETEROCARPISM
The power of producing two kinds of reproductive bodies, as inAmphicarpรฆa, in which besides the usual pods, there are othersunderground.
HETEROCARPOUS
Characterized by heterocarpism.
HETEROCEPHALOUS
Bearing two kinds of heads or capitula; -- said of certaincomposite plants.
HETEROCERA
A division of Lepidoptera, including the moths, and hawk moths,which have the antennรฆ variable in form.
HETEROCERCAL
Having the vertebral column evidently continued into the upperlobe of the tail, which is usually longer than the lower one, as insharks.
HETEROCERCY
Unequal development of the tail lobes of fishes; the possessionof a heterocercal tail.
HETEROCHROMOUS
Having the central florets of a flower head of a differentcolor from those of the circumference.
HETEROCLITE
Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous;abnormal.
HETEROCLITOUS
Heteroclitic. [Obs.]
HETEROCYST
A cell larger than the others, and of different appearance,occurring in certain algรฆ related to nostoc.
HETERODACTYL
Heterodactylous.-- n.
HETERODACTYLAE
A group of birds including the trogons.
HETERODACTYLOUS
Having the first and second toes turned backward, as in thetrogons.
HETERODONT
Having the teeth differentiated into incisors, canines, andmolars, as in man; -- opposed to homodont.
HETERODOX
An opinion opposed to some accepted standard. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
HETERODOXAL
Not orthodox. Howell.
HETERODOXY
An opinion or doctrine, or a system of doctrines, contrary tosome established standard of faith, as the Scriptures, the creed orstandards of a church, etc.; heresy. Bp. Bull.
HETERODROMOUS
Having spirals of changing direction. Gray.
HETEROECIOUS
Passing through the different stages in its life history on analternation of hosts, as the common wheat-rust fungus (Pucciniagraminis), and certain other parasitic fungi; -- contrasted withautocious. -- Het`er*o"cism (#), n.
HETEROGAMY
The process of fertilization in plants by an indirect orcircuitous method; -- opposed to orthogamy.
HETEROGANGLIATE
Having the ganglia of the nervous system unsymmetricallyarranged; -- said of certain invertebrate animals.
HETEROGENE
Heterogenous. [Obs.]
HETEROGENEAL
Heterogeneous.
HETEROGENEITY
The state of being heterogeneous; contrariety.The difference, indeed the heterogeneity, of the two may be felt.Coleridge.
HETEROGENEOUS
Differing in kind; having unlike qualities; possessed ofdifferent characteristics; dissimilar; -- opposed to homogeneous, andsaid of two or more connected objects, or of a conglomerate mass,considered in respect to the parts of which it is made up.-- Het`er*o*ge"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Het`er*o*ge"ne*ous*ness, n. Heterogeneous nouns (Gram.), nounshaving different genders in the singular and plural numbers; as, hiclocus, of the masculine gender in the singular, and hi loci and hรฆcloca, both masculine and neuter in the plural; hoc cรฆlum, neuter inthe singular; hi cรฆli, masculine in the plural.-- Heterogeneous quantities (Math.), such quantities as areincapable of being compared together in respect to magnitude, andsurfaces and solids.-- Heterogeneous surds (Math.), surds having different radicalsigns.
HETEROGENESIS
Spontaneous generation, so called.
HETEROGENETIC
Relating to heterogenesis; as, heterogenetic transformations.
HETEROGENIST
One who believes in the theory of spontaneous generation, orheterogenesis. Bastian.
HETEROGENOUS
Of or pertaining to heterogenesis; heterogenetic.
HETEROGENY
Heterogenesis.
HETEROGONOUS
Characterized by heterogony.-- Het`er*og"o*nous*ly, adv.
HETEROGONY
The condition of having two or more kinds of flowers, differentas to the length of their stamens and pistils.
HETEROGRAPHIC
Employing the same letters to represent different sounds indifferent words or syllables; -- said of methods of spelling; as, theordinary English orthography is heterographic.
HETEROGRAPHY
That method of spelling in which the same letters representdifferent sounds in different words, as in the ordinary Englishorthography; e. g., g in get and in ginger.
HETEROGYNOUS
Having females very unlike the males in form and structure; --as certain insects, the males of which are winged, and the femaleswingless.
HETEROLOGOUS
Characterized by heterology; consisting of different elements,or of like elements in different proportions; different; -- opposedto homologous; as, heterologous organs. Heterologous stimulus.(Physiol.) See under Stimulus.-- Heterologous tumor (Med.), a tumor differing in structure fromthe normal tissues of the body.
HETEROLOGY
The absence of correspondence, or relation, in type ofstructure; lack of analogy between parts, owing to their beingcomposed of different elements, or of like elements in differentproportions; variation in structure from the normal form; -- opposedto homology.
HETEROMERA
A division of Coleoptera, having heteromerous tarsi.
HETEROMEROUS
Unrelated in chemical composition, though similar or indenticalin certain other respects; as, borax and augite are homoemorphous,but heteromerous.
HETEROMORPHIC
Deviating from the normal, perfect, or mature form; havingdifferent forms at different stages of existence, or in differentindividuals of the same species; -- applied especially to insects inwhich there is a wide difference of form between the larva and theadult, and to plants having more than one form of flower.
HETEROMORPHOUS
Heteromorphic.
HETEROMYARIA
A division of bivalve shells, including the marine mussels, inwhich the two adductor muscles are very unequal. See Dreissena, andIllust. under Byssus.
HETERONEREIS
A free-swimming, dimorphic, sexual form of certain species ofNereis.
HETERONOMOUS
Subject to the law of another. Krauth-Fleming.
HETERONOMY
A term applied by Kant to those laws which are imposed on usfrom without, or the violence done to us by our passions, wants, ordesires. Krauth-Fleming.
HETERONYM
That which is heteronymous; a thing having a different name ordesignation from some other thing; -- opposed to homonym.
HETERONYMOUS
Having different names or designations; standing in oppositerelations. J. Le Conte.-- Het"er*on"y*mous*ly, adv.
HETEROOUSIAN
Having different essential qualities; of a different nature.
HETEROOUSIOUS
See Heteroousian.
HETEROPATHIC
Of or pertaining to the method of heteropathy; allopathic.
HETEROPATHY
That mode of treating diseases, by which a morbid condition isremoved by inducing an opposite morbid condition to supplant it;allopathy.
HETEROPELMOUS
Having each of the two flexor tendons of the toes bifid, thebranches of one going to the first and second toes; those of theother, to the third and fourth toes. See Illust. in Append.
HETEROPHAGI
Altrices.
HETEROPHEMIST
One liable to the fault of heterophemy.
HETEROPHEMY
The unconscious saying, in speech or in writing, of that whichone does not intend to say; -- frequently the very reverse of thethought which is present to consciousness. R. G. White.
HETEROPHONY
An abnormal state of the voice. Mayne.
HETEROPHYLLOUS
Having leaves of more than one shape on the same plant.
HETEROPLASM
An abnormal formation foreign to the economy, and composed ofelements different from those are found in it in its normalcondition. Dunglison.
HETEROPLASTIC
Producing a different type of organism; developing into adifferent form of tissue, as cartilage which develops into bone.Haeckel.
HETEROPOD
One of the Heteropoda.-- a.
HETEROPODA
An order of pelagic Gastropoda, having the foot developed intoa median fin. Some of the species are naked; others, as Carinaria andAtlanta, have thin glassy shells.
HETEROPODOUS
Of or pertaining to the Heteropoda.
HETEROPTER
One of the Heteroptera.
HETEROPTERA
A suborder of Hemiptera, in which the base of the anteriorwings is thickened. See Hemiptera.
HETEROPTICS
False optics. Spectator.
HETEROSCIAN
One who lives either north or south of the tropics, ascontrasted with one who lives on the other side of them; -- so calledbecause at noon the shadows always fall in opposite directions (theone northward, the other southward).
HETEROSIS
A figure of speech by which one form of a noun, verb, orpronoun, and the like, is used for another, as in the sentence: "Whatis life to such as me" Aytoun.
HETEROSOMATI
An order of fishes, comprising the flounders, halibut, sole,etc., having the body and head asymmetrical, with both eyes on oneside. Called also Heterosomata, Heterosomi.
HETEROSTYLED
Having styles of two or more distinct forms or lengths. Darwin.
HETEROSTYLISM
The condition of being heterostyled.
HETEROTACTOUS
Relating to, or characterized by, heterotaxy.
HETEROTAXY
Variation in arrangement from that existing in a normal form;heterogenous arrangement or structure, as, in botany, the deviationin position of the organs of a plant, from the ordinary or typicalarrangement.
HETEROTRICHA
A division of ciliated Infusoria, having fine cilia all overthe body, and a circle of larger ones around the anterior end.
HETHING
Contempt; scorn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HETMAN
A Cossack headman or general. The title of chief hetman is nowheld by the heir to the throne of Russia.
HEUK
Variant of Huke. [Obs.]
HEULANDITE
A mineral of the Zeolite family, often occurring in amygdaloid,in foliated masses, and also in monoclinic crystals with pearlyluster on the cleavage face. It is a hydrous silicate of alumina andlime.
HEURISTIC
Serving to discover or find out.
HEVED
The head. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HEW
Destruction by cutting down. [Obs.]Of whom he makes such havoc and such hew. Spenser.
HEWE
A domestic servant; a retainer. [Obs.] "False homely hewe."Chaucer.
HEWER
One who hews.
HEWHOLE
The European green woodpecker. See Yaffle.
HEWN
A prefix or combining form, used to denote six, sixth, etc.;as, hexatomic, hexabasic.
HEXABASIC
Having six hydrogen atoms or six radicals capable of beingreplaced or saturated by bases; -- said of acids; as, mellitic acidis hexabasic.
HEXACAPSULAR
Having six capsules or seed vessels.
HEXACHORD
A series of six notes, with a semitone between the third andfourth, the other intervals being whole tones.
HEXACID
Having six atoms or radicals capable of being replaced byacids; hexatomic; hexavalent; -- said of bases; as, mannite is ahexacid base.
HEXACTINELLID
Having six-rayed spicules; belonging to the Hexactinellinรฆ.
HEXACTINELLINE
Belonging to the Hexactinellinรฆ, a group of sponges, havingsix-rayed siliceous spicules.
HEXACTINIA
The Anthozoa.
HEXAD
An atom whose valence is six, and which can be theoreticallycombined with, substituted for, or replaced by, six monad atoms orradicals; as, sulphur is a hexad in sulphuric acid. Also used as anadjective.
HEXADACTYLOUS
Having six fingers or toes.
HEXADE
A series of six numbers.
HEXADECANE
See Hecdecane.
HEXAGON
A plane figure of six angles. Regular hexagon, a hexagon inwhich the angles are all equal, and the sides are also all equal.
HEXAGONAL
Having six sides and six angles; six-sided. Hexagonal system.(Crystal.) See under Crystallization.
HEXAGONALLY
In an hexagonal manner.
HEXAGONY
A hexagon. [Obs.] Bramhall.
HEXAGYNIA
A Linnรฆan order of plants having six pistils.
HEXAHEDRAL
In the form of a hexahedron; having six sides or faces.
HEXAHEDRON
A solid body of six sides or faces. Regular hexahedron, ahexagon having six equal squares for its sides; a cube.
HEXAMEROUS
In six parts; in sixes.
HEXAMETER
A verse of six feet, the first four of which may be eitherdactyls or spondees, the fifth must regularly be a dactyl, and thesixth always a spondee. In this species of verse are composed theIliad of Homer and the รneid of Virgil. In English hexameters accenttakes the place of quantity.Leaped like the | roe when he | hears in the | woodland the | voiceof the | huntsman. Longfellow.Strongly it | bears us a- | long on | swelling and | limitless |billows, Nothing be- | fore and | nothing be- | hind but the | skyand the | ocean. Coleridge.
HEXAMETRIST
One who writes in hexameters. "The Christian hexametrists."Milman.
HEXANDRIA
A Linnรฆan class of plants having six stamens.
HEXANE
Any one of five hydrocarbons, C6H14, of the paraffin series.They are colorless, volatile liquids, and are so called because themolecule has six carbon atoms.
HEXANGULAR
Having six angles or corners.
HEXAPETALOUS
Having six petals.
HEXAPHYLLOUS
Having six leaves or leaflets.
HEXAPLA
A collection of the Holy Scriptures in six languages or sixversions in parallel columns; particularly, the edition of the OldTestament published by Origen, in the 3d century.
HEXAPOD
Having six feet.-- n. (Zoรถl.)
HEXAPODA
The true, or six-legged, insects; insects other than myriapodsand arachnids.
HEXAPODOUS
Having six feet; belonging to the Hexapoda.
HEXAPTEROUS
Having six processes. Gray.
HEXASTYLE
Having six columns in front; -- said of a portico or temple.-- n.
HEXATEUCH
The first six books of the Old Testament.
HEXAVALENT
Having a valence of six; -- said of hexads.
HEXDECYL
The essential radical, C16H33, of hecdecane.
HEXDECYLIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, hexdecyl or hecdecane; as,hexdecylic alcohol.
HEXEIKOSANE
A hydrocarbon, C26H54, resembling paraffine; -- so calledbecause each molecule has twenty-six atoms of carbon. [Written alsohexacosane.]
HEXENE
Same as Hexylene.
HEXICOLOGY
The science which treats of the complex relations of livingcreatures to other organisms, and to their surrounding conditionsgenerally. St. George Mivart.
HEXINE
A hydrocarbon, C6H10, of the acetylene series, obtainedartificially as a colorless, volatile, pungent liquid; -- called alsohexoylene.
HEXOCTAHEDRON
A solid having forty-eight equal triangular faces.
HEXOIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, hexane; as, hexoic acid.
HEXONE
A liquid hydrocarbon, C6H8, of the valylene series, obtainedfrom distillation products of certain fats and gums.
HEXOSE
Any member of a group of sugars containing six carbon atoms inthe molecule. Some are widely distributed in nature, esp. in ripefruits.
HEXYL
A compound radical, C6H13, regarded as the essential residue ofhexane, and a related series of compounds.
HEXYLENE
A colorless, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H12, of the ethylene series,produced artificially, and found as a natural product of distillationof certain coals; also, any one several isomers of hexylene proper.Called also hexene.
HEXYLIC
Pertaining to, or derived from, hexyl or hexane; as, hexylicalcohol.
HEY
High. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HEYDAY
An expression of frolic and exultation, and sometimes ofwonder. B. Jonson.
HEYDEGUY
A kind of country-dance or round. [Obs.] Spenser.
HEYNE
A wretch; a rascal. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HEYTEN
Hence. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HIATION
Act of gaping. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
HIATUS
The concurrence of two vowels in two successive words orsyllables. Pope.
HIBERNACLE
That which serves for protection or shelter in winter; winterquarters; as, the hibernacle of an animal or a plant. Martyn.
HIBERNACULUM
A winter bud, in which the rudimentary foliage or flower, as ofmost trees and shrubs in the temperate zone, is protected by closelyoverlapping scales.
HIBERNAL
Belonging or relating to winter; wintry; winterish. Sir T.Browne.
HIBERNATE
To winter; to pass the season of winter in close quarters, in atorpid or lethargic state, as certain mammals, reptiles, and insects.Inclination would lead me to hibernate, during half the year, in thisuncomfortable climate of Great Britain. Southey.
HIBERNATION
The act or state of hibernating. Evelyn.
HIBERNIAN
Of or pertaining to Hibernia, now Ireland; Irish.-- n.
HIBERNO-CELTIC
The native language of the Irish; that branch of the Celticlanguages spoken by the natives of Ireland. Also adj.
HIBISCUS
A genus of plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees), some species ofwhich have large, showy flowers. Some species are cultivated in Indiafor their fiber, which is used as a substitute for hemp. See Althea,Hollyhock, and Manoe.
HICCIUS DOCTIUS
A juggler. [Cant] hocus pocus Hudibras.
HICCOUGH
A modified respiratory movement; a spasmodic inspiration,consisting of a sudden contraction of the diaphragm, accompanied withclosure of the glottis, so that further entrance of air is prevented,while the impulse of the column of air entering and striking upon theclosed glottis produces a sound, or hiccough. [Written also hickup orhiccup.]
HICKORY
An American tree of the genus Carya, of which there are severalspecies. The shagbark is the C. alba, and has a very rough bark; itaffords the hickory nut of the markets. The pignut, or brown hickory,is the C. glabra. The swamp hickory is C. amara, having a nut whoseshell is very thin and the kernel bitter. Hickory shad. (Zoรถl.) (a)The mattowacca, or fall herring. (b) The gizzard shad.
HICKSITE
A member or follower of the "liberal" party, headed by EliasHicks, which, because of a change of views respecting the divinity ofChrist and the Atonement, seceded from the conservative portion ofthe Society of Friends in the United States, in 1827.
HICKUP
See Hiccough.
HID
imp. & p. p. of Hide. See Hidden.
HIDAGE
A tax formerly paid to the kings of England for every hide ofland. [Written also hydage.]
HIDALGO
A title, denoting a Spanish nobleman of the lower class.
HIDDEN
from Hide. Concealed; put out of view; secret; not known;mysterious. Hidden fifths or octaves (Mus.), consecutive fifths oroctaves, not sounded, but suggested or implied in the parallel motionof two parts towards a fifth or an octave.
HIDDENITE
An emerald-green variety of spodumene found in North Carolina;lithia emerald, -- used as a gem.
HIDDENLY
In a hidden manner.
HIDE
To lie concealed; to keep one's self out of view; to bewithdrawn from sight or observation.Bred to disguise, in public 'tis you hide. Pope.Hide and seek, a play of children, in which some hide themselves, andothers seek them. Swift.
HIDEBOUND
Having the bark so close and constricting that it impedes thegrowth; -- said of trees. Bacon.
HIDER
One who hides or conceals.
HIDING
The act of hiding or concealing, or of withholding from view orknowledge; concealment.There was the hiding of his power. Hab. iii. 4.
HIDROSIS
Excretion of sweat; perspiration.
HIDROTIC
Causing perspiration; diaphoretic or sudorific.
HIE
To hasten; to go in haste; -- also often with the reciprocalpronoun. [Rare, except in poetry] "My husband hies him home." Shak.The youth, returning to his mistress, hies. Dryden.
HIEMS
Winter. Shak.
HIERAPICRA
A warming cathartic medicine, made of aloes and canella bark.Dunglison.
HIERARCH
One who has high and controlling authority in sacred things;the chief of a sacred order; as, princely hierarchs. Milton.
HIERARCHICAL
Pertaining to a hierarchy.-- Hi`er*arch`ic*al*ly, adv.
HIERARCHISM
The principles or authority of a hierarchy.The more dominant hierarchism of the West. Milman.
HIERATIC
Consecrated to sacred uses; sacerdotal; pertaining to priests.Hieratic character, a mode of ancient Egyptian writing; a modifiedform of hieroglyphics, tending toward a cursive hand and formerlysupposed to be the sacerdotal character, as the demotic was supposedto be that of the people.It was a false notion of the Greeks that of the three kinds ofwriting used by the Egyptians, two -- for that reason calledhieroglyphic and hieratic -- were employed only for sacred, while thethird, the demotic, was employed for secular, purposes. No suchdistinction is discoverable on the more ancient Egyptian monuments;bur we retain the old names founded on misapprehension. W. H. Ward(Johnson's Cyc.).
HIEROCRACY
Government by ecclesiastics; a hierarchy. Jefferson.
HIEROGLYPHICALLY
In hieroglyphics.
HIEROGLYPHIST
One versed in hieroglyphics. Gliddon.
HIEROGRAM
A form of sacred or hieratic writing.
HIEROGRAMMATIC
Written in, or pertaining to, hierograms; expressive of sacredwriting. Bp. Warburton.
HIEROGRAMMATIST
A writer of hierograms; also, one skilled in hieroglyphics.Greenhill.
HIEROGRAPHY
Sacred writing. [R.] Bailey.
HIEROLATRY
The worship of saints or sacred things. [R.] Coleridge.
HIEROLOGIST
One versed in, or whostudies, hierology.
HIEROLOGY
A treatise on sacred things; especially, the science whichtreats of the ancient writings and inscriptions of the Egyptians, ora treatise on that science.
HIEROMANCY
Divination by observing the objects offered in sacrifice.
HIEROMARTYR
A priest who becomes a martyr.
HIERON
A consecrateo place; esp., a temple.
HIERONYMITE
See Jeronymite.
HIEROPHANT
The presiding priest who initiated candidates at the Eleusinianmysteries; hence, one who teaches the mysteries and duties ofreligion. Abp Potter.
HIEROPHANTIC
Of or relating to hierophants or their teachings.
HIEROSCOPY
Divination by inspection of entrails of victims offered insacrifice.
HIEROTHECA
A receptacle for sacred objects.
HIEROURGY
A sacred or holy work or worship. [Obs.] Waterland.
HIFALUTIN
See Highfaluting.
HIG-TAPER
A plant of the genus Verbascum (V. Thapsus); the commonmullein. [Also high-taper and hag-taper.]
HIGGLEDY-PIGGLEDY
In confusion; topsy-turvy. [Colloq.] Johnson.
HIGGLER
One who higgles.
HIGH
To hie. [Obs.]Men must high them apace, and make haste. Holland.
HIGH FIVE
See Cinch (the game).
HIGH PRIEST
A chief priest; esp., the head of the Jewish priesthood.
HIGH STEEL
Steel containing a high percentage of carbon; high-carbonsteel.
HIGH-BLOWN
Inflated, as with conceit.
HIGH-BRED
Bred in high life; of pure blood. Byron.
HIGH-BUILT
Of lofty structure; tall. "High-built organs." Tennyson.The high-built elephant his castle rears. Creech.
HIGH-CHURCH
Of or pertaining to, or favoring, the party called the HighChurch, or their doctrines or policy. See High Church, under High, a.
HIGH-CHURCHISM
The principles of the high-church party.
HIGH-CHURCHMAN
One who holds high-church principles.
HIGH-CHURCHMAN-SHIP
The state of being a high-churchman. J. H. Newman.
HIGH-EMBOWED
Having lofty arches. "The high-embowed roof." Milton.
HIGH-FED
Pampered; fed luxuriously.
HIGH-FINISHED
Finished with great care; polished.
HIGH-FLUSHED
Elated. Young.
HIGH-GO
A spree; a revel. [Low]
HIGH-HANDED
Overbearing; oppressive; arbitrary; violent; as, a high-handedact.
HIGH-HEARTED
Full of courage or nobleness; high-souled.-- High"-heart`ed*ness, n.
HIGH-HOE
The European green woodpecker or yaffle. [Written also high-hoo.]
HIGH-HOLDER
The flicker; -- called also high-hole. [Local, U. S.]
HIGH-LOW
A laced boot, ankle high.
HIGH-METTLED
Having abundance of mettle; ardent; full of fire; as, a high-mettled steed.
HIGH-MINDEDNESS
The quality of being highminded; nobleness; magnanimity.
HIGH-PALMED
Having high antlers; bearing full-grown antlers aloft.
HIGH-PRIESTHOOD
The office, dignity, or position of a high priest.
HIGH-PRIESTSHIP
High-priesthood.
HIGH-PRINCIPLED
Possessed of noble or honorable principles.
HIGH-REACHING
Reaching high or upward; hence, ambitious; aspiring. Shak.
HIGH-RED
Of a strong red color.
HIGH-SEASONED
Enriched with spice and condiments; hence, exciting; piquant.
HIGH-SIGHTED
Looking upward; supercilious. Shak.
HIGH-SOULED
Having a high or noble spirit; honorable. E. Everett.
HIGH-SOUNDING
Pompous; noisy; ostentatious; as, high-sounding words ortitles.
HIGH-SPIRITED
Full of spirit or natural fire; haughty; courageous; impetuous;not brooking restraint or opposition.
HIGH-STEPPER
A horse that moves with a high step or proud gait; hence, aperson having a proud bearing. [Colloq.]
HIGH-STOMACHED
Having a lofty spirit; haughty. [Obs.] Shak.
HIGH-STRUNG
Strung to a high pitch; spirited; sensitive; as, a high-strunghorse.
HIGH-SWELLING
Inflated; boastful.
HIGH-TOP
A ship's masthead. Shak.
HIGHBINDER
A ruffian; one who hounds, or spies upon, another; app. esp. tothe members of certain alleged societies among the Chinese. [U. S.]
HIGHBORN
Of noble birth. Shak.
HIGHER CRITICISM
Criticism which includes the study of the contents, literarycharacter, date, authorship, etc., of any writing; as, the highercriticism of the Pentateuch. Called also historical criticism.
HIGHER THOUGHT
See New thought, below.
HIGHER-UP
A superior officer or official; -- used chiefly in pl. [Slang]
HIGHERING
Rising higher; ascending.In ever highering eagle circles. Tennyson.
HIGHFALUTING
High-flown, bombastic language. [Written also hifalutin.][Jocular, U. S.] Lowell.
HIGHFLIER
One who is extravagant in pretensions, opinions, or manners.Swift.
HIGHFLYING
Extravagant in opinions or ambition. "Highflying, arbitrarykings." Dryden.
HIGHLAND
Elevated or mountainous land; (often in the pl.) an elevatedregion or country; as, the Highlands of Scotland. Highland fling, adance peculiar to the Scottish Highlanders; a sort of hornpipe.
HIGHLANDER
An inhabitant of highlands, especially of the Highlands ofScotland.
HIGHLANDRY
Highlanders, collectively.
HIGHLY
In a high manner, or to a high degree; very much; as, highlyesteemed.
HIGHMEN
Loaded dice so contrived as to turn up high numbers. [Obs] SirJ. Harrington.
HIGHMOST
Highest. [Obs.] Shak.
HIGHROAD
A highway; a much travele
HIGHT
A variant of Height.
HIGHTENER
That which heightens.
HIGHTH
Variant of Height. [Obs.]
HIGHTY-TIGHTY
Hoity-toity.
HIGHWAY
A road or way open to the use of the public; a main road orthoroughfare.
HIGHWAYMAN
One who robs on the public road; a highway robber.
HIGRE
See Eagre. [Obs.] Drayton.
HIKE
To hike one's self; specif., to go with exertion or effort; totramp; to march laboriously. [Dial. or Colloq.] "If you persist inheaving and hiking like this."  Kipling.
HILAL
Of or pertaining to a hilum.
HILAR
Belonging to the hilum.
HILARIOUS
Mirthful; noisy; merry.
HILARITY
Boisterous mirth; merriment; jollity. Goldsmith.
HILARY TERM
Formerly, one of the four terms of the courts of common law inEngland, beginning on the eleventh of January and ending on thethirty-first of the same month, in each year; -- so called from thefestival of St. Hilary, January 13th.
HILDING
A base, menial wretch.-- a.
HILE
To hide. See Hele. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HILL
To surround with earth; to heap or draw earth around or upon;as, to hill corn.Showing them how to plant and hill it. Palfrey.
HILLINESS
The state of being hilly.
HILLING
The act or process of heaping or drawing earth around plants.
HILLOCK
A small hill. Shak.
HILLSIDE
The side or declivity of a hill.
HILLTOP
The top of a hill.
HILTED
Having a hilt; -- used in composition; as, basket-hilted,cross-hilted.
HILUM
The eye of a bean or other seed; the mark or scar at the pointof attachment of an ovule or seed to its base or support; -- calledalso hile.
HILUS
Same as Hilum, 2.
HIM
Them. See Hem. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HIMALAYAN
Of or pertaining to the Himalayas, the great mountain chain inHindostan.
HIMPNE
A hymn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HIMSELF
Themselves. See Hemself. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HIMSELVE
See 1st Himself. [Obs.]
HIN
A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing three quarts, one pint,one gill, English measure. W. H. Ward.
HIND
The female of the red deer, of which the male is the stag.
HINDBERRY
The raspberry. [Prov. Eng.]
HINDBRAIN
The posterior of the three principal divisions of the brain,including the epencephalon and metencephalon. Sometimes restricted tothe epencephalon only.
HINDER
Of or belonging to that part or end which is in the rear, orwhich follows; as, the hinder part of a wagon; the hinder parts of ahorse.He was in the hinder part of the ship. Mark iv. 38.
HINDERANCE
Same as Hindrance.
HINDERER
One who, or that which, hinders.
HINDEREST
Hindermost; -- superl. of Hind, a. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HINDERLING
A worthless, base, degenerate person or animal. [Obs.]Callander.
HINDGUT
The posterior part of the alimentary canal, including therectum, and sometimes the large intestine also.
HINDI
The name given by Europeans to that form of the Hindustanilanguage which is chiefly spoken by native Hindoos. In employs theDevanagari character, in which Sanskrit is written. Whitworth.
HINDLEYS SCREW
A screw cut on a solid whose sides are arcs of the periphery ofa wheel into the teeth of which the screw is intended to work. It isnamed from the person who first used the form.
HINDU
Same as Hindoo.
HINE
A servant; a farm laborer; a peasant; a hind. [Obs.]Bailiff, herd, nor other hine. Chaucer.
HINGE
To stand, depend, hang, or turn, as on a hinge; to dependchiefly for a result or decision or for force and validity; --usually with on or upon; as, the argument hinges on this point. I.Taylor
HINGED
Furnished with hinges.
HINGELESS
Without a hinge or joint.
HINK
A reaping hook. Knight.
HINNY
A hybrid between a stallion and an ass.
HINT
To bring to mind by a slight mention or remote allusion; tosuggest in an indirect manner; as, to hint a suspicion.Just hint a fault and hesitate dislike. Pope.
HINTERLAND
The land or region lying behind the coast district. The term isused esp. with reference to the so-called doctrine of the hinterland,sometimes advanced, that occupation of the coast supports a claim toan exclusive right to occupy, from time to time, the territory lyinginland of the coast.
HINTINGLY
In a hinting manner.
HIP
The external angle formed by the meeting of two sloping sidesor skirts of a roof, which have their wall plates running indifferent directions.
HIP LOCK
A lock in which a close grip is obtained and a fall attemptedby a heave over the hip.
HIP TREE
The dog-rose.
HIP-ROOFED
Having a hip roof.
HIPE
To throw by means of a hipe. -- Hip"er (#), n.
HIPHALT
Lame in the hip. [R.] Gower.
HIPPARION
An extinct genus of Tertiary mammals allied to the horse, butthree-toed, having on each foot a small lateral hoof on each side ofthe main central one. It is believed to be one of the ancestralgenera of the Horse family.
HIPPOBOSCA
A genus of dipterous insects including the horsefly or horsetick.-- Hip`po*bos"can, a.
HIPPOCAMP
See Hippocampus.
HIPPOCAMPAL
Of or pertaining to the hippocampus.
HIPPOCAMPUS
A fabulous monster, with the head and fore quarters of a horsejoined to the tail of a dolphin or other fish (Hippocampusbrevirostris), -- seen in Pompeian paintings, attached to the chariotof Neptune. Fairholt.
HIPPOCENTAUR
Same as Centaur.
HIPPOCRAS
A cordial made of spiced wine, etc.
HIPPOCRATES
A famous Greek physician and medical writer, born in Cos, about460 B. C. Hippocrates' sleeve, a conical strainer, made by stitchingtogether two adjacent sides of a square piece of cloth, esp. flannelof linen.
HIPPOCRATIC
Of or pertaining to Hippocrates, or to his teachings.Hippocratic face Etym: [L. facies Hippocratica], the change producedin the countenance by death, or long sickness, excessive evacuations,excessive hunger, and the like. The nose is pinched, the eyes aresunk, the temples hollow, the ears cold and retracted, the skin ofthe forehead tense and dry, the complexion livid, the lips pendent,relaxed, and cold; -- so called, as having been described byHippocrates. Dunglison.-- Hippocratic oath, an oath said to have been dictated byHippocrates to his disciples. Such an oath is still administered tocandidates for graduation in medicine.
HIPPOCRATISM
The medical philosophy or system of Hippocrates.
HIPPOCRENE
A fountain on Mount Helicon in Boeotia, fabled to have burstforth when the ground was struck by the hoof of Pegasus. Also, itswaters, which were supposed to impart poetic inspiration. Keats.Nor maddening draughts of Hippocrene. Longfellow.
HIPPOCREPIAN
One of an order of fresh-water Bryozoa, in which the tentaclesare on a lophophore, shaped like a horseshoe. See Phylactolรฆma.
HIPPOCREPIFORM
Shaped like a horseshoe.
HIPPODAME
A fabulous sea monster. [Obs.] Spenser.
HIPPODROME
A place set apart for equestrian and chariot races.
HIPPOGRIFF
A fabulous winged animal, half horse and half griffin. Milton.
HIPPOLITH
A concretion, or kind of bezoar, from the intestines of thehorse.
HIPPOPATHOLOGY
The science of veterinary medicine; the pathology of the horse.
HIPPOPHAGI
Eaters of horseflesh.
HIPPOPHAGISM
Hippophagy. Lowell.
HIPPOPHAGIST
One who eats horseflesh.
HIPPOPHAGOUS
Feeding on horseflesh; -- said of certain nomadic tribes, asthe Tartars.
HIPPOPHAGY
The act or practice of feeding on horseflesh.
HIPPOPHILE
One who loves horses. Holmes.
HIPPOPOTAMUS
A large, amphibious, herbivorous mammal (Hippopotamusamphibius), common in the rivers of Africa. It is allied to the hogs,and has a very thick, naked skin, a thick and square head, a verylarge muzzle, small eyes and ears, thick and heavy body, and shortlegs. It is supposed to be the behemoth of the Bible. Called alsozeekoe, and river horse. A smaller species (H. Liberiencis) inhabitsWestern Africa.
HIPPOTOMY
Anatomy of the horse.
HIPPURIC
Obtained from the urine of horses; as, hippuric acid. Hippuricacid, a white crystalline substance, containing nitrogen, present inthe urine of herbivorous animals, and in small quantity in humanurine. By the action of acids, it is decomposed into benzoic acid andglycocoll.
HIPPURITE
A fossil bivalve mollusk of the genus Hippurites, of manyspecies, having a conical, cup-shaped under valve, with a flattishupper valve or lid. Hippurites are found only in the Cretaceousrocks.
HIPSHOT
Having the hip dislocated; hence, having one hip lower than theother. L'Estrange.
HIR
See Here, pron. Chaucer.
HIRCIC
Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mutton suet; -- applied byChevreul to an oily acid which was obtained from mutton suet, and towhich he attributed the peculiar taste and smell of that substance.The substance has also been called hircin. Watts.
HIRCIN
Hircic acid. See Hircic. [R.]
HIRE
See Here, pron. Chaucer.
HIRELESS
Without hire. Davenant.
HIRELING
One who is hired, or who serves for wages; esp., one whosemotive and interest in serving another are wholly gainful; amercenary. "Lewd hirelings." Milton.
HIRER
One who hires.
HIRSUTE
Pubescent with coarse or stiff hairs. Gray.
HIRSUTENESS
Hairiness. Burton.
HIRTELLOUS
Pubescent with minute and somewhat rigid hairs.
HIRUDINE
Of or pertaining to the leeches.
HIRUDINEA
An order of Annelida, including the leeches; -- called alsoHirudinei.
HIRUDO
A genus of leeches, including the common medicinal leech. SeeLeech.
HIRUNDINE
Like or pertaining to the swallows.
HIRUNDO
A genus of birds including the swallows and martins.
HISINGERITE
A soft black, iron ore, nearly earthy, a hydrous silicate ofiron.
HISPANIC
Of or pertaining to Spain or its language; as, Hispanic words.
HISPANICISM
A Spanish idiom or mode of speech. Keightley.
HISPANICIZE
To give a Spanish form or character to; as, to HispanicizeLatin words.
HISPID
Beset with stiff hairs or bristles.
HISPIDULOUS
Minutely hispid.
HISSINGLY
With a hissing sound.
HIST
Hush; be silent; -- a signal for silence. Milton.
HISTIOLOGY
Same as Histology.
HISTOGENETIC
Tissue-producing; connected with the formation and developmentof the organic tissues.
HISTOGENY
Same as Histogenesis. Dunglison.
HISTOGRAPHER
One who describes organic tissues; an histologist.
HISTOGRAPHICAL
Of or pertaining to histography.
HISTOGRAPHY
A description of, or treatise on, organic tissues.
HISTOHAEMATIN
One of a class of respiratory pigments, widely distributed inthe animal kingdom, capable of ready oxidation and reduction.
HISTOID
Resembling the normal tissues; as, histoid tumors.
HISTOLOGIST
One versed in histology.
HISTOLOGY
That branch of biological science, which treats of the minute(microscopic) structure of animal and vegetable tissues; -- calledalso histiology.
HISTOLYSIS
The decay and dissolution of the organic tissues and of theblood.
HISTOLYTIC
Of or pertaining to histolysis, or the degeneration of tissues.
HISTONOMY
The science which treats of the laws relating to organictissues, their formation, development, functions, etc.
HISTOPHYLY
The tribal history of cells, a division of morphophyly.Haeckel.
HISTORIAL
Historical. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HISTORIAN
Of or pertaining to history, or the record of past events; as,an historical poem; the historic page.-- His*tor"ic*al*ness, n.-- His*to*ric"i*ty, n.There warriors frowning in historic brass. Pope.Historical painting, that branch of painting which represents theevents of history.-- Historical sense, that meaning of a passage which is deduced fromthe circumstances of time, place, etc., under which it was written.-- The historic sense, the capacity to conceive and represent theunity and significance of a past era or age.
HISTORICALLY
In the manner of, or in accordance with, history.
HISTORICIZE
To record or narrate in the manner of a history; to chronicle.[R.]
HISTORIED
Related in history.
HISTORIER
An historian. [Obs.]
HISTORIETTE
Historical narration on a small scale; a brief recital; astory. Emerson.
HISTORIFY
To record in or as history. [R.] Lamb.Thy conquest meet to be historified. Sir P. Sidney.
HISTORIOGRAPHER
An historian; a writer of history; especially, one appointed ordesignated to write a history; also, a title bestowed by somegovernments upon historians of distinction.
HISTORIOGRAPHERSHIP
The office of an historiographer. Saintsbury.
HISTORIOGRAPHY
The art of employment of an historiographer.
HISTORIOLOGY
A discourse on history. Cockeram.
HISTORIONOMER
One versed in the phenomena of history and the laws controllingthem.And historionomers will have measured accurately the sidereal yearsof races. Lowell.
HISTORIZE
To relate as history; to chronicle; to historicize. [R.]Evelyn.
HISTORY
To narrate or record. [Obs.] Shak.
HISTOTOMY
The dissection of organic tissues.
HISTOZYME
A soluble ferment occurring in the animal body, to the presenceof which many normal decompositions and synthetical processes aresupposed to be due.
HISTRION
A player. [R.] Pope.
HISTRIONICISM
The histronic art; stageplaying. W. Black.
HISTRIONISM
Theatrical representation; acting; affectation. Sir T. Browne.
HISTRIONIZE
To act; to represent on the stage, or theatrically. Urquhart.
HIT
It. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HITCH
A knot or noose in a rope which can be readily undone; --intended for a temporary fastening; as, a half hitch; a clove hitch;a timber hitch, etc.
HITCHEL
See Hatchel.
HITHE
A port or small haven; -- used in composition; as, Lambhithe,now Lambeth. Pennant.
HITHERMOST
Nearest on this side. Sir M. Hale.
HITHERWARD
Toward this place; hither.Marching hitherward in proud array. Shak.
HITTER
One who hits or strikes; as, a hard hitter.
HITTITE
A member of an ancient people (or perhaps group of peoples)whose settlements extended from Armenia westward into Asia Minor andsouthward into Palestine. They are known to have been met along theOrontes as early as 1500 b. c., and were often at war with theEgyptians and Assyrians. Especially in the north they developed aconsiderable civilization, of which numerous monuments andinscriptions are extant. Authorities are not agreed as to their race.While several attempts have been made to decipher the Hittitecharacters, little progress has yet been made.
HITTORF RAYS
Rays (chiefly cathode rays) developed by the electric dischargein Hittorf tubes.
HIVE
To take shelter or lodgings together; to reside in a collectivebody. Pope.
HIVELESS
Destitute of a hive. Gascoigne.
HIVER
One who collects bees into a hive.
HIZZ
To hiss. [Obs.] Shak.
HO
Who. [Obs.] In some Chaucer MSS.
HOAR
Hoariness; antiquity. [R.]Covered with the awful hoar of innumerable ages. Burke.
HOARD
See Hoarding, 2. Smart.
HOARDER
One who hoards.
HOARDING
A screen of boards inclosing a house and materials whilebuilders are at work. [Eng.]Posted on every dead wall and hoarding. London Graphic.
HOARED
Moldy; musty. [Obs.] Granmer.
HOARFROST
The white particles formed by the congelation of dew; whitefrost. [Written also horefrost. See Hoar, a.]He scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes. Ps. cxlvii. 16.
HOARHOUND
Same as Horehound.
HOARINESS
The state of being hoary. Dryden.
HOARSELY
With a harsh, grating sound or voice.
HOARSEN
To make hoarse.I shall be obliged to hoarsen my voice. Richardson.
HOARSENESS
Harshness or roughness of voice or sound, due to mucuscollected on the vocal cords, or to swelling or looseness of thecords.
HOARSTONE
A stone designating the Halliwell.
HOARY
Of a pale silvery gray.
HOATZIN
Same as Hoazin.
HOAX
A deception for mockery or mischief; a deceptive trick orstory; a practical joke. Macaulay.
HOAXER
One who hoaxes.
HOAZIN
A remarkable South American bird (Opisthocomus cristatus); thecrested touraco. By some zoรถlogists it is made the type of a distinctorder (Opisthocomi).
HOB
A threaded and fluted hardened steel cutter, resembling a tap,used in a lathe for forming the teeth of screw chasers, worm wheels,etc.
HOBBISM
The philosophical system of Thomas Hobbes, an Englishmaterialist (
HOBBIST
One who accepts the doctrines of Thomas Hobbes.
HOBBLE SKIRT
A woman's skirt so scant at the bottom as to restrain freedomof movement after the fashion of a hobble. -- Hob"ble-skirt`ed, a.
HOBBLEBUSH
A low bush (Viburnum lantanoides) having long, stragglingbranches and handsome flowers. It is found in the Northern UnitedStates. Called also shinhopple.
HOBBLER
One who hobbles.
HOBBLINGLY
With a limping step.
HOBBLY
Rough; uneven; causing one to hobble; as a hobbly road.
HOBBY
A small, strong-winged European falcon (Falco subbuteo),formerly trained for hawking.
HOBBYHORSICAL
Pertaining to, or having, a hobby or whim; eccentric;whimsical.[Colloq.] Sterne.
HOBGOBLIN
A frightful goblin; an imp; a bugaboo; also, a name formerlygiven to the household spirit, Robin Goodfellow. Macaulay.
HOBILER
A light horseman. See 2d Hobbler. [Obs.] Brande & C.
HOBIT
A small mortar on a gun carriage, in use before the howitzer.
HOBNAIL
To tread down roughly, as with hobnailed shoes.Your rights and charters hobnailed into slush. Tennyson.
HOBNAILED
See with hobnails, as a shoe.
HOBNOB
Familiar, social intercourse. W. Black.
HOBO
A professional tramp; one who spends his life traveling fromplace to place, esp. by stealing rides on trains, and begging for aliving. [U. S.] -- Ho"bo*ism (#), n.
HOBORNOB
See Hobnob.
HOBOY
A hautboy or oboe. [Obs.]
HOCCO
The crested curassow; -- called also royal pheasant. SeeCurassow.
HOCHEPOT
Hotchpot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
HOCK
A Rhenish wine, of a light yellow color, either sparkling orstill. The name is also given indiscriminately to all Rhenish wines.
HOCKAMORE
A Rhenish wine. [Obs.] See Hock. Hudibras.
HOCKDAY
A holiday commemorating the expulsion of the Danes, formerlyobserved on the second Tuesday after Easter; -- called also hocktide.[Eng.] [Written also hokeday.]
HOCKHERB
The mallow.
HOCUS
To cheat. [Colloq.] L'Estrange.
HODDENGRAY
Applied to coarse cloth made of undyed wool, formerly worn byScotch peasants. [Scot.]
HODDY
See Dun crow, under Dun, a.
HODDYDODDY
An awkward or foolish person. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
HODGEPODGE
A mixed mass; a medley. See Hotchpot. Johnson.
HODMAN
A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender.
HODMANDOD
See Dodman. Bacon.
HODOGRAPH
A curve described by the moving extremity of a line the otherend of which is fixed, this line being constantly parallel to thedirection of motion of, and having its length constantly proportionalto the velocity of, a point moving in any path; -used ininvestigations respecting central forces.
HODOMETER
See Odometer.
HOE
The horned or piked dogfish. See Dogfish. Dutch hoe, one havingthe blade set for use in the manner of a spade.-- Horse hoe, a kind of cultivator.
HOECAKE
A cake of Indian meal, water, and salt, baked before the fireor in the ashes; -- so called because often cooked on a hoe.[Southern U.S.]
HOEMOTHER
The basking or liver 